Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business

Overview of the Company’s Business

Sterling Construction Company, Inc., ("Sterling" or "the Company") was founded in 1991 as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 1800 Hughes Landing Boulevard, Suite 250, The Woodlands, Texas 77380 and our telephone number at this address is (281) 214-0800. Our construction business was founded in 1955 by a predecessor company in Michigan and is now conducted through our subsidiaries which primarily include: J. Banicki Construction, Inc., an Arizona corporation, or “JBC”; Myers & Sons Construction, L.P., a California limited partnership, or “Myers”; Ralph L. Wadsworth Construction Company, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, or “RLW”; Road and Highway Builders, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company, or “RHB”; Tealstone Commercial, Inc., a Texas corporation, or "TCI"; Tealstone Residential Concrete, Inc., a Texas corporation, or "TRC"; and Texas Sterling Construction Co., a Delaware corporation, or “TSC”. The terms “Company,” “Sterling,” and “we” refer to Sterling Construction Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries except when it is clear that those terms mean only the parent company or a particular subsidiary.

The Company is a construction company that specializes in (1) heavy civil construction and (2) residential concrete projects primarily in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Nevada, Texas, Utah and other states in which there are feasible construction opportunities. Our heavy civil construction projects include highways, roads, bridges, airfields, ports, light rail, water, wastewater and storm drainage systems, foundations for multi-family homes, commercial concrete projects and parking structures. Our residential construction projects include concrete foundations for single-family homes.

Sterling has grown its service profile and geographic reach both organically and through acquisitions. RHB was acquired in 2007, which expanded the footprint into Nevada and Hawaii. Expansions into Utah, Arizona and California were achieved with the 2009 acquisition of RLW and the 2011 acquisitions of JBC and Myers, respectively. Expansion into residential concrete projects was achieved with the 2017 acquisition of TCI and TRC (collectively, "Tealstone"). 

Recent Developments

Financial Turnaround in 2017, Tealstone Acquisition and Federal Highway Funding Acts

In 2017, the Company's revenues increased to $958 million, from $690 million in 2016. Our 2017 operating income totaled $26.2 million and net income attributable to Sterling common stockholders was $11.6 million compared to an operating loss of $4.7 million and a net loss of $ 9.2 million in 2016. Our gross margins have increased to 9.3% in 2017 from 6.1% in 2016. 
On April 3, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition (the “Tealstone Acquisition”) of 100% of the outstanding stock
of Tealstone Residential Concrete, Inc. and Tealstone Commercial, Inc. (collectively, “Tealstone”) from the stockholders thereof (the “Sellers”) for consideration consisting of $55,000,000 in cash, 1,882,058 shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Placement Shares”), and $5,000,000 of promissory notes issued to the Sellers. In addition, the Company will make $2,426,000 and $7,500,000 of deferred cash payments on the second and third anniversaries of the closing date, respectively, and up to an aggregate of $15,000,000 in earn-out payments may be made on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the closing date to continuing Tealstone management or their affiliates if specified financial performance levels are achieved. Tealstone focuses on concrete construction of residential foundations, parking structures, elevated slabs and other concrete work for leading homebuilders, multi-family developers and general contractors in both residential and commercial markets. This acquisition enables expansion into adjacent markets and diversification of revenue streams and customer base with higher margin work.
 In conjunction with the Tealstone Acquisition, on April 3, 2017, the Company, as borrower, and certain of its subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Wilmington Trust, National Association, as agent, and the lenders party thereto (the “Oaktree Facility”), providing for a term loan of $85,000,000 (the “Loan”) with a maturity date of April 4, 2022, which replaced the then existing debt facility. The Loan is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.

The financial improvements reflect the stabilization of our heavy civil construction business and the acquisition of Tealstone. Our strategy to stabilize the heavy civil construction business through cost reductions, remaining diligent at the bid table, monitoring pricing at the time of bid, and executing the projects to expectations led to improved operating income of $11.3 million in 2017 compared to an operating loss of $4.7 million in 2016. The additional improvement in operating income is related to the Tealstone acquisition, which occurred on April 3, 2017. The Company's 2017 financial results include nine months of operations from Tealstone.
5

The U.S. transportation construction market is forecasted to grow from $247.1 billion in 2017 to $284.0 billion in 2022. This increase is largely driven by the federal “Fixing Americas Surface Transportation Act” (“Fast Act”). The Fast Act is the first law enacted in over ten years that provides long-term funding for transportation, meaning states can move forward with critical projects with confidence as they will now have a Federal partner over the long term. Over the next five years, spending for both public and private bridge and highway work is forecasted to grow from $149.7 billion to $167.2 billion; airport and runway work are forecasted to grow from $15.3 billion to $22.7 billion; port and waterway work will increase from $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion; and rail/light rail work will grow from $20.3 billion to $23.1 billion. In addition to the Fast Act, certain states within our markets have passed legislation that will help funding of transportation construction. In 2015, Texas passed two constitutional amendments (Proposition 1 and Proposition 7) that increased its transportation spend by $4.0 to $4.5 billion annually. In November 2017, Texas also approved an estimated $1.3 billion of local bonds. Utah passed a gas tax increase of five cents/gallon in 2016 with an additional one cent/gallon increase over the next four years. This represents a 20% increase and is expected to generate $75 to $85 million in additional spending per year. The State of Utah also approved, in 2017, a $1 billion bond package for infrastructure improvements. In addition, a one cent sales tax increase was approved in Los Angeles, California in 2016 which will provide $3 billion a year for local road, bridge and transit projects.

Our Markets and Customers

Our operations, which resulted in $958 million of revenues in 2017, are performed under our heavy civil construction and residential construction segments within the United States (“U.S.”). See Note 18--Segment Information for additional details, (references to “Note” or “Notes” refer to the Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in this annual report on Form 10-K).
Heavy Civil Construction
Our heavy civil construction segment relies heavily on federal and state infrastructure spending. In our heavy civil construction segment, our principal markets are Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Nevada, Texas and Utah. Within our principal markets, our core customers are the departments of transportation in various states (“DOTs”), regional transit authorities, airport authorities, port authorities, water authorities, railroads and commercial construction customers.
Currently, our largest customers are the Utah DOT and the Texas DOT. These customers have each contributed more than 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2017. We routinely construct projects for these customers. If any one of these customers were lost, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Refer to Note 16--Concentration of Risk and Enterprise Wide Disclosures for the Company’s major customers that represent a concentration of risk due to their significant revenue contributions.
Residential Construction
 Our residential construction segment's principal market is Texas, specifically the Dallas-Fort Worth area and the surrounding communities. The core customer base for residential construction segment is primarily made up of leading national home builders as well as regional and custom home builders. Our largest customers are Pulte Group, Inc., D.R. Horton, Inc. and HISTORYMAKER Homes. 
Competition
Our competition for both segments ranges from small local contractors to large international construction companies. We traditionally try to position ourselves to bid on work that is too large for the small local contractors yet too small for the large national and international construction companies. However, if market conditions became less favorable, we would tend to see migration from both the small local contractors and large international players into our bids. This, in return, potentially reduces both revenue growth and margins. See the section below entitled, Item 1A. "Risk Factors."
Seasonality
Our operations for both segments are typically affected by weather conditions primarily during the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which may alter construction schedules and can create variability in our revenues, profitability and the required number of employees.
Source and Availability of Raw Materials
We purchase raw materials for both segments, including but not limited to, cement, liquid asphalt, steel, diesel and gasoline fuel, natural gas and propane from numerous sources. The price and availability of raw materials may vary from year to year due 
6

to fluctuations in market conditions and production capacities. We do not foresee a lack of availability of any necessary raw materials over the next twelve months.
Heavy Civil Construction 
Components of our heavy civil construction Combined Backlog are as follows:

• | "Backlog" is the unearned revenue we expect to earn in future periods on our executed heavy civil construction contracts. Backlog was $744 million and $823 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As the construction on our projects progress, we increase or decrease Backlog to take into account signed contracts, revenue earned during the period and our estimates of the effects of changes in estimated quantities, changed conditions, change orders and other variations from previously anticipated contract revenues, including completion penalties and incentives. We anticipate that approximately 80% of our Backlog will be recognized as revenues during 2018. 


• | Contracts in which we are the apparent low bidder for projects (“Unsigned Low-bid Awards”) are excluded from Backlog until the contract is executed by our customer. Unsigned Low-bid Awards were $250 million at December 31, 2017 and $226 million at the end of 2016. We expect substantially all of the Unsigned Low-bid Awards at December 31, 2017 to be signed and included in Backlog in the first quarter of 2018.


• | The combination of our Backlog and Unsigned Low-bid Awards, which we refer to as "Combined Backlog," totaled $995 million and $1.04 billion as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.


Substantially all of the contracts in our Backlog contain "termination for convenience" clauses which allow the customer to cancel the contract at their election but require that the Company be remunerated for work performed through the date of termination; we have not been materially adversely affected by contract cancellations or modifications in the past. See the section below entitled, “Heavy Civil Construction Contracts — Contract Management Process.”


Heavy Civil Construction Contracts
The majority of our revenues and Backlog is derived from fixed unit price contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to provide materials and services at a fixed unit price based on approved quantities irrespective of our actual per unit costs. As discussed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors,” we realize a profit on our contracts only if our revenues exceed our costs, which requires us to accurately estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs to avoid cost overruns. If our cost estimates to complete a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow, earnings and financial position.

While the risks of cost overruns and changes in estimated contract revenues are an inherent part of the construction business, we continue to implement the following to improve the profitability of our projects, reduce the variability in profitability of our projects in the future and strengthen our internal control environment:


• | We continue to adapt roles and responsibilities to improve functional support and controls when needed.


• | We continue to hire senior management with expertise and experience in the construction industry.


• | We continue to develop management tools and enhance project management capabilities designed to improve the estimating process and increase the oversight of that process where needed and continue to refine existing tools.


• | We continue to implement processes designed to better identify, evaluate and quantify risks for individual projects where needed and continue to refine existing processes.


• | We continue to improve the methodologies for allocating overhead, indirect costs and equipment costs to individual projects in order to provide more accurate job costs and future bidding estimates.


• | We continue to improve the timeliness and content of reporting available to operations management.


Our highway and related bridge work is generally funded through federal and state authorizations. Funding for federal highway projects primarily originates from the Highway Trust Fund where federal motor fuel taxes are the major source of income into the fund. Additional income is provided from the General Fund and certain other funds to maintain the solvency of the fund. In the latter part of 2015, we saw the passage of federal and several state infrastructure funding plans. This trend of increased federal and state spending has helped our Combined Backlog hold steady at $995 million at December 31, 2017 from $1.04 billion at December 31, 2016.
7

Types of Contracts
We provide our services primarily by using traditional general contracting arrangements, including fixed unit price contracts, lump sum contracts and cost-plus contracts.

Fixed unit price contracts are generally used in competitively-bid public civil construction contracts. Contractors under fixed unit price contracts are generally committed to provide all of the resources required to complete the contract for a fixed price per unit. These contracts are generally subject to negotiated change orders, frequently due to differences in site conditions from those initially anticipated or asserted by the customer. Some fixed unit price contracts provide for penalties if the contract is not completed on time, or incentives, if it is completed ahead of schedule.
Under a lump sum contract, the contractor typically agrees to deliver a completed project in accordance with the contract’s requirements for a specific price, and the customer agrees to pay the price according to a negotiated payment schedule. In developing a lump sum bid, the contractor estimates the costs of labor, subcontracts and materials and adds an amount for overhead and profit. The amount of the profit included in the bid is based on the contractor’s assessment of risk and other factors such as availability of resources. If the actual costs of labor, subcontracts, materials and overhead are higher than the contractor’s estimate, the profit will be reduced or become a loss; if the actual costs are lower, the contractor may earn more profit.

In a cost-plus contract, the owner of a project generally agrees to pay the cost of all of the contractor’s labor, subcontracts and materials plus an amount for contractor overhead and profit (usually as a percentage of the labor, subcontracts and material cost). If actual costs are lower than the estimate, the owner benefits from the cost savings. If actual costs are higher than the estimate, the owner bears the economic burden of the additional costs.

Contract Management Process
We identify potential contracts from a variety of sources including through subscriber services that notify us of contracts out for bid; through advertisements by federal, state and local governmental entities; through our business development efforts; through contacts at government agencies; and through meetings with other participants in the construction industry. After determining which contracts are available, we decide which contracts to pursue based on such factors as the relevant skills required, the contract size and duration, the availability of our personnel and equipment, the size and makeup of our current backlog, our competitive advantages and disadvantages, our prior experience, the contracting agency or customer, the source of contract funding, geographic location, likely competition, construction risks, gross margin opportunities, penalties or incentives and the type of contract.

As a condition to pursuing some contracts, we are required to complete a prequalification process with the applicable agency or customer. Some customers, such as state departments of transportation, require yearly prequalification, and some other customers have experience requirements specific to the contract. The prequalification process generally limits bidders to those companies with the operational experience and financial capability to effectively complete the particular contract in accordance with the plans, specifications and construction schedule.

There are several factors that can create variability in contract performance and financial results compared to our bid assumptions on a contract. The most significant of these include the completeness and accuracy of our original bid analysis, recognition of costs associated with added scope changes, extended overhead due to customer and weather delays, subcontractor availability and performance issues, changes in productivity expectations, site conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid, and changes in the availability and proximity of materials. In addition, our original bids for some contracts are based on the contract customer’s estimates of the quantities needed to complete a contract. If the quantities ultimately needed are different, our backlog and financial performance on the contract will change. All of these factors can lead to inefficiencies in contract performance, which can increase costs and lower profits. Conversely, if any of these or other factors are more favorable than the assumptions in our bid, contract profitability can improve. 

The estimating process for our traditional fixed unit price competitive bid contracts typically involves three phases. Initially, we consider the level of anticipated competition and our available resources for the prospective project. If we then decide to continue considering a project, we undertake the second phase of the contract process and perform a detailed review of the plans and specifications, summarizing the various types of work involved and related estimated quantities, determining the contract duration and schedule and highlighting the unique and riskier aspects of the contract. Concurrent with this process, we estimate the cost and availability of labor, material, equipment, subcontractors and the project team required to complete the contract on time and in accordance with the plans and specifications. The final phase consists of a detailed review of the estimate by management, including, among other things, assumptions regarding cost, approach, means and methods, productivity, risk and the estimated profit margin. This profit amount will vary according to management’s perception of the degree of difficulty of the contract, the current competitive climate and the size, availability of resources and makeup of our backlog. Our project managers are intimately 
8

involved throughout the estimating and construction process so that contract issues and risks can be understood and addressed generally on a timely basis.
Although the factors described above are relevant in determining the appropriate amount to bid, the contracting process is managed differently if the project is to be performed on a design-build basis or a construction manager/general contractor (“CM/GC”) basis. For design-build projects, we assemble a team that may include project managers, engineers, quality managers and surveyors, to learn about a project that we have identified as one on which we may desire to bid. For some projects, prequalification for the project is required where each contractor and/or contracting team prepares a description of financial strengths, past experience on similar types of projects, safety record and the persons who will be on the project management and design team, after which, the customer will usually announce a short list of three to five contractors to respond to a request for proposal, generally within three months. Utilizing the limited design specifications provided by the customer, we generally meet weekly over a two to three month period with design engineers to generate a bid containing quantities, prices, timing and a description of our approach for completing the project. The customer then reviews the bids and selects the one that has the best value, and considers factors such as contractor qualifications, the time estimated to complete the project and the price bid.

For our CM/GC projects, the customer typically sends out a request for proposal to general contractors for a project. The customer scores each contractor that submits a bid based on a multitude of items. Some of the items utilized in the scoring could be, but are not limited to, the unit prices submitted for a small percentage of the items that comprise the project design, the profit margin proposed, the experience of the contractor for similar types of projects, the contractor’s approach to completing the specific project and whether the contractor understands the CM/GC process. A committee reviews each bid and determines the best value winner to be the general contractor along with the ranking of the contractors resume and related experience. If we are the winning general contractor, we work with the customer and the engineer to design the project. As various phases of the project are designed, we usually submit bids to construct phases of the project for which we are qualified. In some situations, we also solicit bids from other construction contractors.

To manage risks of changes in material prices and subcontracting costs used in tendering bids for construction contracts, we generally obtain firm price quotations from our suppliers and subcontractors, except for fuel and trucking, before submitting a bid. For fixed unit price contracts, these quotations do not include any quantity guarantees, and we have no obligation for materials or subcontract services beyond those required to complete the respective contracts that we are awarded for which quotations have been provided. For design-build and CM/GC projects, lump sum subcontracts are often executed with subcontractors.

During the construction phase of a contract, we monitor our progress by comparing actual costs incurred and quantities completed to date with budgeted amounts and the contract schedule, and periodically prepare an updated estimate of total forecasted revenue, cost and expected profit for the contract.

During the normal course of most contracts, the customer, and sometimes the contractor, initiates modifications or changes to the original contract to reflect, among other things, changes in quantities, specifications or design, method or manner of performance, facilities, materials, site conditions and the period for completion of the work. In many cases, final contract quantities may differ from those specified by the customer. Generally, the scope and price of these modifications are documented in a “change order” to the original contract and reviewed, approved and paid in accordance with the normal change order provisions of the contract. We are often required to perform extra or change order work under our fixed unit price contracts as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. This process may result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original contract plans and specifications or, even if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price that the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. These disputes may not be settled to our satisfaction. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of the work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other work on the contract (or on other contracts) and our ability to meet contract milestone dates.

The process for resolving contract claims varies from one contract to another but, in general, we attempt to resolve claims at the project supervisory level through the normal change order process or, if necessary, with higher levels of management within our organization and the customer’s organization. Regardless of the process, when a potential claim arises on a contract, we typically have the contractual obligation to perform the work and must incur the related costs. We do not recoup the costs unless and until the claim is resolved, which could take a significant amount of time.
Most of our construction contracts provide for termination of the contract for the convenience of the customer, with provisions to generally pay us for work performed through the date of termination plus a margin. Our backlog and results of operations have not been materially adversely affected by these provisions in the past.

9

We act as the prime contractor on the majority of the construction contracts that we undertake. We generally complete the majority of the work on our contracts with our own resources, and we typically subcontract only specialized activities, such as traffic control, electrical systems, signage, trucking and earthmoving. As the prime contractor, we are responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including subcontract work. Thus, we are subject to increased costs associated with the failure of one or more subcontractors to perform as anticipated. We manage this risk by reviewing the size of the subcontract, the financial stability of and prior experience of and with the subcontractor and other factors. Although we generally do not require that our subcontractors furnish a bond or other type of security to guarantee their performance, we require performance and payment bonds on some specialized or large subcontract portions of our contracts. Disadvantaged business enterprise regulations require us to use our best efforts to subcontract a specified portion of contract work performed for governmental entities to certain types of subcontractors, including minority- and women-owned businesses.
Heavy Civil Construction Delivery Methods
Alternative construction delivery methods describe different contractual and responsibility relationships among the owner, the builder and the designer of a project. There are three primary construction delivery methods: design-bid-build, design-build and construction management.

The traditional method by which the majority of our projects have historically been completed is design-bid-build. Under this type of construction delivery, the owner hires a design engineer to design the project and then solicits bids from construction firms and typically awards the contract to build the pre-designed project to the lowest qualifying bidder. The contractor to whom the project is awarded becomes the general contractor and is responsible for completing the project in accordance with the owner’s designs using the contractor’s own employees or resources, or subcontractors. Projects under this method are typically fixed unit price contracts.

Design-build is sometimes used by public entities as a method of project delivery. Unlike traditional projects where the owner first hires a design firm or designs a project itself and then puts the project out to bid for construction, design-build projects provide the owner with a single point of responsibility and a single contact for both final design and construction. The owner selects a builder who hires the design team as required and construction typically starts before the design is complete. This project delivery method is typically undertaken through either fixed unit price contracts or lump sum contracts, and price is not the only determining factor used by the owner when selecting a particular contractor. Design-build projects carry additional risks such as design error risk and the risk associated with estimating quantities and prices before the project design is completed. Design errors may result in higher than anticipated construction costs and additional liability to the contract owner. Although we manage this additional risk by adding contingencies to our bid amounts, obtaining errors and omissions insurance and obtaining indemnifications from our design consultants where possible, there is no guarantee that these risk management strategies will always be successful. Generally, gross margins included in bids on design-build contracts are higher than for other types of contracts due to the higher risks involved.

Construction management is a method of delivering a project whereby a contractor agrees to manage a project for the owner for an agreed-upon fee, which may be fixed or may vary based upon negotiated factors. The owner of the project typically hires the contractor as a construction manager early in the design phase of the project. The construction manager works with the design team to help ensure that the design is something that can in fact be built within the owner’s desired cost and other parameters and that the ultimate construction contractor will be able to understand the design drawings and specifications. There are two basic types of construction management: construction manager as advisor and construction manager at risk. In the construction manager as advisor type of arrangement, the construction manager acts as a technical consultant to the owner of the project and has no legal responsibility for the performance of the actual construction work. In the construction manager at risk type of arrangement, the construction manager becomes the prime contractor during the construction phase and makes a determination as to which portions of the work will be self-performed and which will be performed through subcontracts. In either type of construction management process, portions of a project are often submitted for bid during the course of the construction manager relationship, with the construction manager bidding, and oftentimes having the first right to bid on portions of the project.

Heavy Civil Construction Project Joint Ventures
We participate in joint ventures with other construction companies and other partners, typically for large, technically complex projects, including design-build projects, when it is desirable to share risk and resources in order to seek a competitive advantage or when the project is too large for us to obtain sufficient bonding. Joint venture partners typically provide independently prepared estimates, furnish employees and equipment, enhance bonding capacity and often also bring local knowledge and expertise. We select our joint venture partners based on our analysis of their construction and financial capabilities, expertise in the type of work to be performed and past working relationships with us, among other criteria.

10

Under a joint venture agreement, one partner is typically designated as the sponsor or manager. The sponsoring partner typically provides all administrative, accounting and most of the project management support for the project and generally receives a fee from the joint venture for these services. We have been designated as the sponsoring partner in certain of our current joint venture projects and are a non-sponsoring partner in others.

Joint venture contracts with project owners typically impose joint and several liability on the joint venture partners. Although our agreements with our joint venture partners provide that each party will assume and pay its share of any losses resulting from a project, if one of our partners is unable to pay its share, we would be fully liable under our contract with the project owner. Circumstances that could lead to a loss under these guarantee arrangements include a partner’s inability to contribute additional funds to the venture in the event that the project incurs a loss or additional costs that we could incur should the partner fail to provide the services and resources toward project completion that have been committed to in the joint venture agreement. Refer to Note 6--Construction Joint Ventures.

Insurance and Bonding
All of our buildings and equipment are covered by insurance, at levels which our management believes to be adequate. In addition, we maintain general liability and excess liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance and auto insurance all in amounts consistent with our risk of loss and industry practice.

As a normal part of the heavy civil construction business, we are generally required to provide various types of surety and payment bonds that provide an additional measure of security for our performance under the contract. Typically, a bidder for a contract must post a bid bond, generally for 5% to 10% of the bid amount, and on being awarded the bid, must post a performance and payment bond for 100% of the costs to construct. Usually, upon posting of the performance bond, a contractor must also post a maintenance bond for generally 1% of the contract amount for one to two years. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon our capitalization, working capital, aggregate contract size, past performance, management expertise and external factors, including the capacity of the overall surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in light of the amount of our backlog that we have currently bonded and their current underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. As is customary, we have agreed to indemnify our bonding company for all losses incurred by it in connection with bonds that are issued, and we have granted our bonding company a security interest in certain assets, including accounts receivable, as collateral for such obligation.

Government and Environmental Regulations
Our operations are subject to compliance with numerous regulatory requirements of federal, state and local agencies and authorities, including regulations concerning safety, wage and hour, and other labor issues, immigration controls, vehicle and equipment operations and other aspects of our business. For example, our construction operations are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) and comparable state laws directed toward the protection of employees. In addition, most of our construction contracts are entered into with public authorities, and these contracts frequently impose additional governmental requirements, including requirements regarding labor relations and subcontracting with designated classes of disadvantaged businesses.
All of our operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, including those relating to discharges into air, water and land, climate change, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, the handling of underground storage tanks and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. For example, we must apply water or chemicals to reduce dust on road construction projects and to contain contaminants in storm run-off water at construction sites. In certain circumstances, we may also be required to hire subcontractors to dispose of hazardous wastes encountered on a project in accordance with a plan approved in advance by the customer. Certain environmental laws impose substantial penalties for non-compliance and others, such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, impose strict and retroactive joint and several liability upon persons responsible for releases of hazardous substances.

CERCLA and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Under CERCLA, these persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and, in some instances, third parties, to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur.

11

Solid wastes, which may include hazardous wastes, are subject to the requirements of the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, referred to as RCRA, and comparable state statutes. Although we do not generate solid waste, we occasionally dispose of solid waste on behalf of customers. From time to time, the EPA considers the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non-hazardous wastes. Moreover, it is possible that additional wastes will in the future be designated as “hazardous wastes.” Hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements than are non-hazardous wastes.

We continually evaluate whether we must take additional steps at our locations to ensure compliance with environmental laws. While compliance with applicable regulatory requirements has not materially adversely affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. In addition, tighter regulation for the protection of the environment and other factors may make it more difficult to obtain new permits and renewal of existing permits may be subject to more restrictive conditions than currently exist.

Employees
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 1,740 employees, including 1,407 field personnel in our heavy civil construction division. Of the 1,407 heavy civil construction field employees, 255 were union members primarily in Arizona, California, Hawaii and Nevada and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our residential construction segment had approximately 56 employees, including 43 field personnel. None of the residential construction employees were union members.

Our business is dependent upon a readily available supply of management, supervisory and field personnel. Substantially all of our employees are hired on a full-time basis; however, as is typical in the construction industry, we experience a high degree of turnover as a result of construction projects being completed. In the past, we have been able to attract sufficient numbers of personnel to support the growth of our operations. However, we continue to face competition for experienced workers in all our markets.

We focus on our safety processes which have allowed us to maintain a high level of safety at our work sites. All employees receive hazard specific training and our newly-hired employees undergo an initial safety orientation and receive follow-up trainings during their first 90 days of employment. Our project managers and superintendents work closely with the safety department to ensure safety is planned into all of our operations before they begin. Daily, our project foremen are required to conduct safety briefings and stretch with employees. Regular safety walkthroughs are conducted by our managers, supervisors and safety staff to evaluate project conditions and observe employee safety behavior.

Access to Company’s Filings

The Company maintains a website at www.strlco.com on which our latest annual report on Form 10-K, recent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, recent current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those filings, and other filings may be accessed free of charge; some directly on the website and others through a link to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) website (www.sec.gov) where those reports are filed. Our website also has recent press releases, the Company’s code of business conduct, the charters of the audit committee, compensation committee, and corporate governance and nominating committee of the Board of Directors and information on the Company’s “whistleblower” procedures. Our website content is made available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, and none of the information on the website is incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K by this reference to it.
12

