Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

 Item 1.      Business
 General
 Image Sensing Systems, Inc. (referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company”) develops and markets video and radar processing products for use in traffic applications such as intersection control, highway, bridge and tunnel traffic management and traffic data collection.
 We are a leading provider of above-ground detection products and solutions for the intelligent transportation systems (“ITS”) industry. Our family of products, which we market as Autoscope® video or video products (“Autoscope”), and RTMS® radar or radar products (“RTMS”), provides end users with the tools needed to optimize traffic flow and enhance driver safety. Our technology analyzes signals from sophisticated sensors and transmits the information to management systems and controllers or directly to users. Our products provide end users with complete solutions for the intersection and transportation markets.
 Our technology is a process in which software, rather than humans, examines outputs from various types of sophisticated sensors to determine what is happening in a field of view. In the ITS industry, this process is a critical component of managing congestion and traffic flow. In many cities, it is not possible to build roads, bridges and highways quickly enough to accommodate the increasing congestion levels. On average, United States commuters spend 42 hours a year stuck in traffic, and congestion costs motorists $160 billion a year. We believe this growing use of vehicles will make our ITS solutions increasingly necessary to complement existing and new roadway infrastructure to manage traffic flow and optimize throughput.
 We believe our solutions are technically superior to those of our competitors because they have a higher level of accuracy, limit the occurrence of false detection, are generally easier to install with lower costs of ownership, work effectively in a multitude of light and weather conditions, and provide end users the ability to manage inputs from a variety of sensors for a number of tasks. It is our view that the technical advantages of our products make our solutions well suited for use in ITS markets.
 We believe the strength of our distribution channels positions us to increase the penetration of our technology‑driven solutions in the marketplace. We market our Autoscope video products in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean through exclusive agreements with Econolite Control Products, Inc. (“Econolite”), which we believe is the leading distributor of ITS intersection control products in these markets.
 We market the RTMS radar systems to a network of distributors, and on a limited basis directly to end users, worldwide.  We market our Autoscope video products outside of the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean through a combination of distribution and direct sales channels, through our offices in Spain and Romania. Our end users primarily include governmental agencies and municipalities.
 Industry Overview
 The Intelligent Transportation Systems Market.  ITS encompasses a broad range of information processing and control electronics technologies that, when integrated into roadway infrastructure, help monitor and manage traffic flow, reduce congestion and enhance driver safety. The ITS market has been built around the detection of conditions that impact the proper operation of roadway infrastructure. ITS applications include a wide array of traffic management systems, such as traffic signal control, tolling and variable messaging signs. ITS technologies include video vehicle detection, inductive loop detection, sensing technologies (such as radar), floating cellular data, computational technologies and wireless communications.
 In traffic management applications, vehicle detection products are used for automated vehicle detection and are a primary data source upon which ITS solutions are built. Traditionally, automated vehicle detection is performed using inductive wire loops buried in the pavement. However, in‑pavement loop detectors are costly to install, difficult to maintain, expensive to repair and not capable of either wide‑area vehicle detection without installations of multiple loops.
   
1
-


 Above‑ground detection solutions for ITS offer several advantages to in‑pavement loop detectors. Above‑ground detection solutions tend to have a lower total cost of ownership than in‑pavement loop detectors because above‑ground solutions are non‑destructive to road surfaces, do not require closing roadways to install or repair, and are capable of wide‑area vehicle detection with a single device, thus enabling one input device to do the work of many in‑pavement loops. Due to their location above-ground, these solutions have no exposure to the wear and tear associated with expanding and contracting pavement and generally less exposure to the vibration and compaction caused by traffic. Furthermore, in the event of malfunction or product failure, above‑ground detection solutions can be serviced and repaired without shutting down the roadway. Each of these factors results in greater up‑time and increased reliability of above‑ground detection solutions compared to in‑pavement loop detectors. These technology solutions also offer a broader set of detection capabilities and a wider field of view than in‑pavement loop detectors. In addition, a single unit video‑ or radar‑based system can detect and measure a variety of parameters, including vehicle presence, counts, speed, length, time occupancy, headway and flow rate as well as environmental factors and obstructions to the roadway. An equivalent installation using loops would require many installations per lane.
 We believe that several trends are driving the growth in ITS and adjacent market segments:
 Proliferation of Traffic. In many countries, there has been a surge in the number of vehicles on roadways. Due to the growth of emerging economies and elevated standards of living, more people desire and are able to afford automobiles. The number of vehicles utilizing the world’s roadway infrastructure is growing at a quicker pace than new roads, bridges and highways are being constructed.  According to the Federal Highway Administration, American drivers put a record 3.22 trillion miles on public roads and highways in 2016, an increase of 2.8% from 3.1 trillion miles in 2015. Overall, the growth in roadway infrastructure is failing to match the surge in the number of vehicles using it. Above-ground detection based traffic management and control systems address the problem by monitoring high traffic areas and analyzing data that can be used to mitigate traffic problems.
 The Demographics of Urbanization. Accelerated worldwide urbanization drives the creation and expansion of middle classes and produces heightened demand for automobiles. Currently, there are at least 500 cities in the world with over 1 million people. Because automobiles can be introduced to a metropolitan area faster than roadway infrastructure can be constructed, the result is continuously worsening traffic. Expanding the roadway infrastructure is slow and costly to implement, and often environmentally undesirable, so government agencies are increasingly turning to technology‑based congestion solutions that optimize performance and throughput of existing and new roadway infrastructure. Detection is the requisite common denominator for any technology‑based solution.
 The Melding of Large City Service Domains. Large cities require a wide range of service domains, including traffic. These cities are increasingly turning to centralized management of these service domains, employing a command and control model that requires sharing and integrating data across service domains to operate effectively and lower total cost. For example, data collected for the traffic management service domain is relevant to all of the other service domains. This means that each sensor can supply information to multiple domain services. In turn, the sharing of detection information across service domains should increase the level of sophistication required to process and interpret that information.  Additionally, above-ground detection products are more capable of performing certain complicated tasks than humans.  This makes the concepts of “rich sensing” and “instrumenting the city” through above-ground detection solutions cost effective, which we believe will result in the extensive proliferation of sophisticated sensors and detection devices.
 Solutions for Adjacent Markets. We believe that the adjacent markets of ITS and security/surveillance are converging, and that this convergence will accelerate as above-ground detection systems become more cost‑effective now that a single sensor can be used for multiple purposes. Because the technologies involved are closely related, our sensor technology can be adapted to or is already capable of addressing these adjacent markets.
 Our Competitive Strengths
 We are a leading provider of above-ground detection products and solutions for the ITS industry. We have the following competitive strengths that we expect will continue to enhance our leadership position:
 Leading Proprietary Technologies. Over the last two decades, we have developed or acquired a proprietary portfolio of complex software algorithms and applications that we have continuously enhanced and refined. These algorithms, which include our advanced signal processing technologies, allow our video and radar products to capture and analyze objects in diverse weather and lighting conditions and to balance the accuracy of positive detection and the avoidance of false detections. Due to the strength of our proprietary technologies, we believe we command premium pricing. Above-ground detection technologies similar to ours are also difficult to develop and refine in a commercially viable manner. We are therefore well positioned to quickly introduce innovative next‑generation products to market.

2
-


 Proven Ability to Develop, Enhance and Market New Products. We are continually developing and enhancing our product offerings. Over the last two decades, we have demonstrated our ability to lead the market with new products and product enhancements. For example, the Autoscope Solo system was the first fully integrated color camera, zoom lens and machine vision processor in the above-ground detection market. Our RTMS Radar business unit was one of the first to introduce radar‑based technology solutions for ITS applications, and we continue to lead the market with technology enhancements and new products.  Furthermore, our next generation video product, Autoscope Vision, is an example of development driven by the voice of our customers.  We have developed a high definition video detection solution with increased accuracy, performance, and ease of use. We have successfully collaborated with our long‑term channel partners to market these products. We believe that developing, enhancing and marketing new products with our partners can translate into strong organic revenue growth and high levels of profitability.
 Leading Distribution Channel. Since 1991, we have maintained a relationship with Econolite, which has the exclusive right to manufacture, market and distribute our Autoscope video products in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. We believe that Econolite is the leading distributor of ITS control products in North America and the Caribbean. This relationship enhances our ability to commercialize and market new products and allows us to focus more resources on developing advanced signal processing software algorithms.
 Broad Product Portfolio. Our product portfolio leverages our core software‑based algorithms to enable end users to detect and monitor objects in a designated field of view. We believe that our family of Autoscope video and RTMS radar products allows us to offer a broad product portfolio that meets the needs of our end users.
 Experienced Management Team and Engineering Staff.  Our management team and engineering staff are highly experienced in the ITS and software industries. Additionally, the continuity of our engineering staff should allow the uninterrupted development of new or improved products.
 Our Growth Strategy
 As part of our growth strategy, we seek to:
 Enhance and Extend Our Technology Leadership in ITS. We believe we have established ourselves as a leading provider of technology in the ITS market segment. We believe that we continue to have an opportunity to accelerate our growth. We plan to do this by improving the accuracy and functionality of our products and opportunistically expanding our product offering into adjacent markets, as well as expanding our portfolio and channels through licensing. Having developed and introduced our next-generation video product, we expect to take advantage of our technical leadership in ITS and further differentiate us from our competitors.
 Expand into Adjacent Markets. Our core skill is the implementation of above-ground detection products and solutions. Over the past two decades, we have been developing and refining our complex signal processing software algorithms. We should be able to effectively utilize our core software skills more broadly as markets converge. We believe that a driver of this convergence is that above-ground detection systems will become more cost‑effective when a single sensor can be used for multiple purposes. As a result, our objective is to become the leading supplier of critical detection components to third party management systems, particularly those that exploit the convergence of traffic. To do this, we are integrating this concept into our long‑range engineering development road‑map and will evaluate the use of technology licensing and channel strategies that support this vision.
 Increase the Scope of Our Distribution and Direct Sales. We have made substantial investments in product adjustments to tailor our solutions to the differing needs of our international end users and in new product acquisitions for both domestic and international markets. We have also invested in sales and marketing expansion, with a focus on our European subsidiaries. Markets in Eastern Europe, the Asia/Pacific region, the Middle East, Africa and South America, which have historically lagged North America and Western Europe in their use of above-ground detection, have begun to increase the adoption of detection technology in their traffic systems. We intend to take advantage of the accelerated pace of the adoption of above-ground detection throughout the developing world by increasing end user awareness of our products and applications as well as improve user aptitude.
Our Products and Solutions
 Our vehicle and traffic detection products are critical components of many ITS applications. Our Autoscope video systems and RTMS radar systems convert sensory input collected by video cameras and radar units into vehicle detection and traffic data used to operate, monitor and improve the efficiency of roadway infrastructure. At the core of each product line are proprietary digital signal processing algorithms and sophisticated embedded software that analyze sensory input and deliver actionable data to integrated applications. We invested approximately $4.1 million and $4.6 million on research and development in 2017 and 2016, respectively, to develop and enhance our product technology. Our digital signal processing software algorithms represent a foundation on which to support additional product development into the automatic incident detection (AID) market. A diagram displaying our fundamental product architecture is shown below.

3
-

The Image Sensing Product Architecture
 
Autoscope Video. Our Autoscope video system processes video input from a traffic scene in real time and extracts the required traffic data, including vehicle presence, bicycle presence/differentiation, counts, speed, length, time occupancy (percent of time the detection zone is occupied), turning movements (quantifying the movement of vehicles ) and flow rate (vehicles per hour per lane). Autoscope supports a variety of standard video cameras or can be purchased with an integrated high-definition video camera. For intersections, the system communicates with the intersection signal controller, which changes the traffic lights based on the data provided. In highway applications, the system gathers vehicle count and flow rates. In any application, the data may also be transmitted to a traffic management center via the internet or other standard communication means and processed in real time to assist in traffic management and stored for later analysis for traffic planning purposes.
 The Autoscope system comes in two varieties.  Autoscope Vision is our flagship integrated product that includes a color high-definition, zoom camera and a machine vision processing computer contained in a compact housing that is our leading offering in the North American market.  Autoscope Pn-520 is our card only machine vision processing computer that is located in an intersection signal controller, control hub, incident management center or traffic management center that receives video from a separate camera. The Pn-520 and its variants are our top selling Autoscope products in international markets. Autoscope rack-based products offer digital MPEG‑4 video streaming, high speed Ethernet interface, web browser maintenance and data and video over power line communications. The Autoscope Vision product offers digital streaming video, built-in WiFi for quick and easy setup, cost-effective three-wire cable and full screen object detection and motion tracking algorithm technology for best in class detection accuracy.
 RTMS Radar. Our RTMS radar systems use radar to measure vehicle presence, volume, occupancy, speed and classification information for roadway monitoring applications. Data is transmitted to a central computer at a traffic management center via standard communication means, including wireless. Data can be processed in real time to assist in traffic management and stored for later analysis for traffic planning purposes.
 RTMS radar is an integrated radar transmitter/receiver and embedded processor contained in a compact, self‑contained unit. The unit is typically situated on roadway poles and side‑fired, making it especially well-suited for highway detection applications.
 The RTMS radar system come in a few different varieties. RTMS Sx-300 is our base, non-intrusive radar for detection and measurement of traffic on roadways and is our leading offering in both North America and the Middle East.  The RTMS Sx-300 HDCAM has a high-definition camera that provides the user with visual setup confirmation, data capture and real-time traffic surveillance.  The Sx-300 HDCAM has been widely deployed in North America for various applications such as ramp metering and wrong way driver detection.  The RTMS Sx-300 BT is an integrated Sx-300 with dual channel Bluetooth sensor and is ideal for providing the most accurate travel time and origin/destination information.  We also offer a wrong way module that interfaces with the Sx-300 HDCAM digital video stream and leverages our video detection algorithms to detect occurrences of vehicles driving the incorrect direction.  The event is captured and sent to the end users via SMS and email in parallel with actuation or roadside or in-pavement warning systems.

  
4
-

Distribution, Sales and Marketing
 We market and sell our products globally. Together with our partners, we offer a combination of high‑performance detection technology and experienced local support. Our end users primarily consist of federal, state, city and county departments of transportation, port, highway, tunnel and other transportation authorities. The decision‑makers within these entities typically are traffic planners and engineers, who in turn often rely on consulting firms that perform planning and feasibility studies. Our products sometimes are sold directly to system integrators or other suppliers of systems and services who are operating under subcontracts in connection with major road construction contracts.
 Sales of Autoscope Video in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. We have granted Econolite an exclusive right to manufacture, market and distribute the Autoscope video system in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean. The agreement with Econolite grants it a first refusal right that arises when we make a proposal to Econolite to extend the license to additional products in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean and a first negotiation right that arises when we make a proposal to Econolite to include rights corresponding to Econolite’s rights under our current agreements in countries not in these territories. Econolite provides the marketing and technical support needed for its sales in these territories. Econolite pays us a royalty on the revenue derived from its sales of the Autoscope system. We cooperate in marketing Autoscope video products with Econolite for the United States, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean and provide second‑tier technical support. We have the right to terminate our agreements with Econolite if it does not meet minimum annual sales levels or if Econolite fails to make payments as required by the agreements. In 2008, the term of the original agreement with Econolite, as amended, was extended to 2031. The agreements can be terminated by either party upon three years’ notice.
 Sales of RTMS Radar in North America, the Caribbean and Latin America. We market the RTMS radar systems to a network of distributors covering countries in North America, the Caribbean and Latin America. On a limited basis, we sell directly to the end user.  We provide technical support to these distributors from our various North American locations.
 Sales in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. We market our Autoscope video and RTMS radar product lines of products to a network of distributors covering countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia through our wholly‑owned subsidiaries that have offices in Europe. On a limited basis, we sell directly to the end user. Technical support to these distributors is provided by our wholly‑owned subsidiaries in Europe, with second‑tier support provided by our engineering groups.  From time to time, we may grant exclusive rights to Econolite for markets outside of our significant markets for certain jurisdictions or product sales based on facts and circumstances related to the opportunities.
Competition
 We compete with companies that develop, manufacture and sell traffic management devices using video and radar sensing technologies as well as other above‑ground detection technologies based on laser, infrared and acoustic sensors. For ITS applications, we also compete with providers of in‑pavement loop detectors and estimate that more than 60% of the traffic management systems currently in use in the U.S. use in‑pavement loop detectors. For competition with other above‑ground detection products, we typically compete on performance and functionality, and to a lesser extent on price. When competing against providers of loop detectors, we compete principally on ease of installation and the total cost of ownership over a multi‑year period, and to a lesser extent on functionality.
 Among the companies that provide direct competition to Autoscope video worldwide are Iteris, Inc., Wavetronix, LLC, FLIR Systems, Inc., Signal Group Inc. (Peek), Citilog S.A., Sensys Inc., and Smartmicro Inc.  Among the companies that provide direct competition to RTMS radar worldwide are Wavetronix, LLC, Houston Radar, LLC,  MS Sedco Inc., Smartmicro Sensors GmbH, and TraffiCast. To our knowledge, Autoscope video and RTMS radar have the largest number of installations as compared to their direct competitors. In addition, there are smaller local companies providing direct competition in specific markets throughout the world. We are aware that these and other companies will continue to develop technologies for use in traffic management applications. One or more of these technologies could in the future provide increased competition for our systems.
 Other potential competitors of which we are aware include Siemens AG, Cognex Corp., Augusta Technologie AG, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic), Sumitomo Corporation and Omron Electronics LLC. These companies have machine vision or radar capabilities and have substantially more financial, technological, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we have.
   
5
-

Manufacturing
 Autoscope video products for sale under the Econolite license agreement are manufactured through agreements with Econolite and Wireless Technology, Inc. Econolite is responsible for setting warranty terms and must provide all service required under this warranty. In Europe and Asia, we engage contract manufacturers to manufacture the Autoscope family of products.
 We engage Wireless Technology, Inc. to manufacture our radar products and perform warranty and post-warranty repairs for all radar units sold.
 We typically provide a two to five-year warranty on our products.
 Most of the hardware components used to manufacture our products are standard electronics components that are available from multiple sources. Although some of the components used in our products are obtained from single‑source suppliers, we believe other component vendors are available should the necessity arise.  The European Parliament has enacted a directive for the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (“RoHS”).  To our knowledge, our contract manufacturing and component vendors in Europe and Asia comply with the European directive on RoHS.
 Intellectual Property
 To protect our rights to our proprietary know‑how, technology and other intellectual property, it is our policy to require all employees and consultants to sign confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to any third parties. These agreements also require disclosure and assignment to us of any discoveries and inventions made by employees and consultants while they are devoted to our business activities. We also rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property.  We have also entered into exclusive and non‑exclusive license and confidentiality agreements relating to our own and third‑party technologies. We aggressively protect our processes, products, and strategies as proprietary trade secrets. Our efforts to protect intellectual property and avoid disputes over proprietary rights include ongoing review of third‑party patents and patent applications.
Environmental Matters
 We believe our operations are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations within the jurisdictions in which we operate.
 Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we had 59 employees, consisting of 49 employees in North America and 10 employees in Europe. None of our employees are represented by a union.
