Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1.    Business
General
Target Corporation (Target, the Corporation or the Company) was incorporated in Minnesota in 1902. We offer our customers, referred to as "guests," everyday essentials and fashionable, differentiated merchandise at discounted prices. Our ability to deliver a preferred shopping experience to our guests is supported by our supply chain and technology, our devotion to innovation, our loyalty offerings, and our disciplined approach to managing our business and investing in future growth. We operate as a single segment designed to enable guests to purchase products seamlessly in stores or through our digital channels. Since 1946, we have given 5 percent of our profit to communities.
In 2014, we announced our exit from the Canadian market. Canadian financial results are included in our financial statements as our only discontinued operations. 
CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS) operates pharmacies and clinics in our stores under a perpetual operating agreement, subject to termination in limited circumstances. We sold our pharmacy and clinic businesses (Pharmacy Transaction) to CVS in December of 2015. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 6 of Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (the Financial Statements) for more information.
Financial Highlights
For information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see Item 6, Selected Financial Data, MD&A, and Note 30 of the Financial Statements.
Seasonality
A larger share of annual revenues and earnings traditionally occurs in the fourth quarter because it includes the November and December holiday sales period.
Merchandise
We sell a wide assortment of general merchandise and food. The majority of our general merchandise stores offer an edited food assortment, including perishables, dry grocery, dairy, and frozen items. Nearly all of our stores larger than 170,000 square feet offer a full line of food items comparable to traditional supermarkets. Our small format stores, generally smaller than 50,000 square feet, offer curated general merchandise and food assortments. Our digital channels include a wide merchandise assortment, including many items found in our stores, along with a complementary assortment such as additional sizes and colors sold only online. 
2

A significant portion of our sales is from national brand merchandise. Approximately one-third of 2017 sales is related to our owned and exclusive brands, including but not limited to the following:

Owned Brands | | 
A New Day™ | Goodfellow & Co.™ | Sonia Kashuk® 
Archer Farms® | JoyLab™ | Spritz™ 
Art Class™ | Knox Rose™ | Sutton & Dodge® 
Ava & Viv® | Market Pantry® | Threshold™ 
Boots & Barkley® | Merona® | up & up® 
Bullseye's Playground™ | Pillowfort™ | Who What Wear™ 
Cat & Jack™ | Project 62™ | Wine Cube® 
Cloud Island™ | Room Essentials® | Wondershop™ 
Embark® | Simply Balanced™ | Xhilaration® 
Gilligan & O'Malley® | Smith & Hawken® | 
Exclusive Brands | | 
C9 by Champion® | Hearth & Hand™ with Magnolia | Mossimo® 
DENIZEN® from Levi's® | Isabel Maternity™ by Ingrid & Isabel® | Nate Berkus™ for Target
Fieldcrest® | Just One You® made by carter's® | Oh Joy!® for Target 
Genuine Kids® from OshKosh® | Kid Made Modern® | 
Hand Made Modern® | | 

We also sell merchandise through periodic exclusive design and creative partnerships and generate revenue from in-store amenities such as Target Café and leased or licensed departments such as Target Optical, Starbucks, and other food service offerings. The majority of our stores also have a CVS pharmacy from which we will generate ongoing annual occupancy-related income (see MD&A and Note 6 of the Financial Statements for more information).
Distribution
The vast majority of merchandise is distributed to our stores through our network of 41 distribution centers. Common carriers ship general merchandise to and from our distribution centers. Vendors or third party distributors ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Merchandise sold through our digital channels is distributed to our guests via common carriers (from stores, distribution centers, vendors and third party distributors) and through guest pick-up at our stores. Using our stores as fulfillment points allows improved product availability and delivery times and also reduces shipping costs. We continue to expand other delivery options, including store drive-up and delivery via our wholly-owned subsidiary, Shipt, Inc. (Shipt).
Employees
At February 3, 2018, we employed approximately 345,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, referred to as "team members." Because of the seasonal nature of the retail business, employment levels peak in the holiday season. We offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our team members. Eligibility for and the level of benefits vary depending on team members' full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire, and/or length of service. Company-paid benefits include a 401(k) plan, medical and dental plans, disability insurance, paid vacation, tuition reimbursement, various team member assistance programs, life insurance, a pension plan (closed to new participants, with limited exceptions), and merchandise and other discounts. We believe our team member relations are good.
3

Working Capital
Effective inventory management is key to our ongoing success, and we use various techniques including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. We achieve effective inventory management by staying in-stock in core product offerings, maintaining positive vendor relationships, and carefully planning inventory levels for seasonal and apparel items to minimize markdowns.
We expect less variability in working capital needs throughout the year than we have historically experienced due to efforts to better match payables to inventory levels. 
The Liquidity and Capital Resources section in MD&A provides additional details.
Competition
We compete with traditional and internet retailers, including off-price general merchandise retailers, apparel retailers, wholesale clubs, category specific retailers, drug stores, supermarkets, and other forms of retail commerce. Our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers and provide compelling value to our guests largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry.
Intellectual Property
Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy. Our principal trademarks, including Target, SuperTarget and our "Bullseye Design," have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We also seek to obtain and preserve intellectual property protection for our owned brands.
Geographic Information
Virtually all of our revenues are generated within the United States. The vast majority of our property and equipment is located within the United States.
Available Information
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge at investors.target.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct Guide, Corporate Responsibility Report, and the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors are also available free of charge in print upon request or at investors.target.com.
4

