Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.

Overview
Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc. (Nasdaq: SRNE), together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our”) is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on delivering clinically meaningful therapies to patients and their families, globally. Our primary focus is to transform cancer into a treatable or chronically manageable disease. We also have programs assessing the use of our technologies and products in auto-immune, inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases and pain indications with high unmet medical needs.

At our core, we are an antibody-centric company and leverage our proprietary G-MAB™ library and targeted delivery modalities to generate the next generation of cancer therapeutics. Our validated fully human antibodies include PD-1, PD-L1, CD38, CD123, CD47, c-MET, VEGFR2, CCR2, OX40, TIGIT and CD137 among others.
Our vision is to leverage these antibodies in conjunction with proprietary targeted delivery modalities to generate the next generation of cancer therapeutics. These modalities include proprietary antibody drug conjugates (“ADCs”), bispecific approaches, as well as T-Cell Receptor (“TCR”)-like antibodies.  With LA Cell, Inc. (“LA Cell”), our joint venture with City of Hope, our objective is to become the global leader in the development of antibodies against intracellular targets such as STAT3, mutant KRAS, MYC, p53 and TAU. Additionally, we have acquired and are assessing the regulatory and strategic path forward for our portfolio of late stage biosimilar/biobetter antibodies based on Erbitux®, Remicade®, Xolair®, and Simulect® as these may represent nearer term commercial opportunities.
With each of our programs, we aim to tailor our therapies to treat specific stages in the evolution of cancer, from elimination, to equilibrium and escape. In addition, our objective is to focus on tumors that are resistant to current treatments and where we can design focused trials based on a genetic signature or biomarker to ensure patients have the best chance of a durable and significant response. We have several immuno-oncology programs that are in or near to entering the clinic.  These include cellular therapies, an oncolytic virus and a palliative care program targeted to treat intractable cancer pain.  Finally, as part of our global aim to provide a wide range of therapeutic products to meet underserved therapeutic markets, we have made investments and developed a separate pain focused franchise which we believe will serve to provide short term upside to our core thesis.
Our cellular therapy programs focus on Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cell (“CAR-T”) for adoptive cellular immunotherapy to treat both solid and liquid tumors.  We have reported early data from Phase I trials of our carcinoembryonic antigen (“CEA”) and PSMA directed CAR-T programs. Our CD38 CAR-T is being evaluated in the context of highly resistant 
1

multiple myeloma (“MM”), amyloidosis and graft-versus-host disease (“GvHD”). We are assessing our CD123 CAR-T in the context of highly resistant acute myeloid leukemia (“AML”). Both of the latter programs have successfully demonstrated strong preclinical anti-tumor activity in animal models. Our plan is to submit Investigational New Drug (“IND”) applications with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) for at least one of these CAR-T programs in 2018. 
Finally, as part of our global aim to provide a wide range of therapeutic products to meet underserved therapeutic markets, we have made investments and developed a separate pain focused franchise which we believe will serve to provide short term upside to our core thesis. Within this franchise, resiniferatoxin (“RTX”) is a non-opioid-based TRPV1 agonist neurotoxin used as an injectable pain treatment. The compound RTX has been granted orphan drug status for the treatment of intractable pain at end-stage cancer and a Phase I trial with the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) is concluding. Other applications of RTX are expected to start Phase I trials in 2018. Additionally, we have acquired proprietary technologies to responsibly develop next generation, branded pharmaceutical products to better manage critical conditions and maximize the quality of life of patients and healthcare providers. Scilex’s lead product candidate, ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%), is a next-generation lidocaine delivery system recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of postherpetic neuralgia, a severe neuropathic pain condition. ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%) is manufactured by our collaboration partner in their state of the art manufacturing facility.
Our Strategy
Our primary goal is to deliver clinically meaningful therapies to patients and their families, globally. In immuno-oncology, we aim to deliver next generation therapeutics to transform cancer into a treatable or chronically manageable disease. Across all our programs, we are focused on addressing severe unmet medical needs where our therapies can change the natural course of disease or significantly improve a patient’s quality of life.
Our core strategic objectives and resources are focused on:

1. | Advancing our lead product candidates through the clinic. These include the initiation of Phase I, Phase II and potentially accelerated approval trials for our cellular therapies, oncolytic virus immunotherapy and RTX in oncology and/or hematology indications.


2. | Continuing the development of our preclinical programs with the aim of filing several new INDs over the next 5 years. These include moving our checkpoint inhibitors from our core antibody portfolio into the clinic with several of our strategic partners, while internally focusing on advancing our transformational intracellular targeting antibodies (“iTAbs”), with LA Cell.


3. | Collaborating with key opinion leaders and leading clinical and research institutes to enhance our preclinical and clinical development plans. We currently have such agreements in place with the Karolinska Institute, The Scripps Research Institute (“TSRI”), the NIH, City of Hope, Tufts Medical School, and Roger Williams Medical Center, among others.


4. | Manufacturing our preclinical and clinical materials in-house. We have established a quality control and quality assurance program, which includes a set of standard operating procedures and specifications designed to ensure that our products are manufactured in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMPs”), and other applicable domestic and foreign regulations.


5. | Exploring strategic relationships to share in the risk reward of our core franchises and to derive near term value from our non-core franchise, such as our pain franchise. Our partnering objectives include generating revenue through license fees, milestone-related development fees and royalties as well as profit shares or joint ventures to generate potential returns from our product candidates and technologies.

Segment Information and Financial Information about Geographic Areas
We have determined that we operate in one operating segment.  See Note 3 to the notes to our consolidated financial statements accompanying this Form 10-K for further information. All of our revenues from continuing operations are essentially attributed to the United States. All of our long-lived assets are essentially located within the United States.
Pipeline and Product Candidates
2

An overview of our core programs is provided in the table below:

Near Term Clinical Programs
Cellular Therapies
With our cellular therapy subsidiary, TNK Therapeutics, Inc. (“TNK”), we are focusing on the development of Chimeric Antigen Receptor (“CAR”)-based immunotherapies using autologous T-cells.
CD38 Directed CAR-T Program
Our most advanced cellular therapy is a proprietary, second generation anti-CD38 CAR-T therapy, which we are developing for the treatment of multiple myeloma and for additional potential indications including amyloidosis and graft-versus-host disease. Our anti-CD38 CAR-T is based on a fully human anti-CD38 mAb derived from our G-MAB™ antibody library.
The membrane glycoprotein CD38 is widely found on the surface of lymphoid and myeloid lineages including B, T and NK cells, but absent from most mature resting lymphocytes with the notable exception of terminally differentiated plasma cells. Because CD38 is highly expressed on multiple myeloma cells, it represents a valuable and validated therapeutic target against myeloma. Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematologic malignancy in which clonal plasma cells accumulate in the bone marrow or extramedullary sites and give rise to clinical complications such as painful, lytic bone lesions, hypercalcemia, renal impairment, cytopenias, and symptomatic plasmacytomas.
The American Cancer Society estimated 30,280 new cases and 12,590 deaths from multiple myeloma in the U.S. during 2017. The anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody DARZALEX® (daratumumab), marketed by Janssen Oncology, was granted accelerated approval by the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma on November 16, 2015. Worldwide net sales of DARZALEX® were $572 million in 2016 and $1.2 billion in 2017. We are encouraged by the validation of this important target in the market for multiple myeloma therapeutics and its rapid adoption by clinicians in the myeloma community. We believe our CD38 cellular therapy will provide an additional significant advance in the CD38 blockade for multiple myeloma patients that are resistant or have failed current therapies.
Pre-clinically, CD38 has demonstrated specific activation through the anti-CD38 CAR resulting in the production of cytokines and CAR-T proliferation. In vitro models have shown that CD38-expressing multiple myeloma tumor cells were killed efficiently, and completely eradicated tumors in a xenograft mouse model of human myeloma. Importantly, anti-CD38 
3

CAR-T selectively lysed multiple myeloma target cells expressing high levels of CD38 while avoiding the killing of cells with normal or low levels of CD38. We believe this unique characteristic may result in a more tolerable safety profile in humans and enable a more effective manufacturing process of our anti-CD38 CAR-T cells since we do not anticipate requiring a genetic CD38 knock-out or knock-down in our construct.
We believe anti-CD38 CAR-T benefits from 3 key advantages:

1. | Non-Immunogenic: Anti-CD38 CAR-T is based on a fully human mAb generated from our GMAB® library. This may result in a potentially more tolerable CAR-T regimen, and a more durable long term response.


2. | Selective Lysing of High Expressing CD38 Positive Cells: Ability to selectively lyse CD38 high expression cells only, may limit on-target / off-tumor toxicity.


3. | Has Not Demonstrated Graft versus Host Disease: Our anti-CD38 CAR-T cells did not cause GvHD in vivo. This could have implications on our ability to apply this therapy in an allogeneic setting.

Our intention is to submit an IND for anti-CD38 CAR-T in 2018, and initiate a Phase I trial shortly thereafter.
CD123 Directed CAR-T Program
CD123 is a proprietary, second generation anti-CD123 CAR-T therapy which we are developing for the treatment of AML, also known as acute myelogenous leukemia or acute non-lymphocytic leukemia, a cancer of the myeloid line of blood cells, characterized by the rapid growth of abnormal white blood cells that accumulate in the bone marrow and interfere with the production of normal blood cells. AML is the most common acute leukemia affecting adults, and its incidence increases with age. The American Cancer Society estimated 21,380 new cases and 10,590 deaths from acute myeloid leukemia in the U.S. for 2017. Our anti-CD123 CAR-T is based on a fully human anti-CD123 mAb derived from our G-MAB™ antibody library.
CD123 is overexpressed in a variety of hematological neoplasms, including AML, blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (“ALL”), chronic myeloid leukemia (“CML”), Hodgkin’s lymphoma and hairy cell leukemia.  The overexpression of CD123 has been clinically correlated with a lower survival rate in AML patients and thus, we believe CD123 could provide an important therapy in this disease.
To date, CD123 has demonstrated specific activation resulting in the production of cytokines and CAR-T proliferation. Anti-CD123 CAR-T has selectively lysed CD123-expressing AML tumor cells in vitro, and strongly suppressed the growth of established tumors in a xenograft mouse model of human AML. Upon the completion of our preclinical testing of anti-CD123 CAR-T, we will plan to submit an IND for first in human trials in AML.
Technologies and Preclinical Pipeline
G-MAB™: Fully Human Antibody Library Platform
Our G-MAB™ library, which forms the backbone of many of our product candidates, was initially invented by Henry Ji, Ph.D., our co-founder, President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe our proprietary G-MAB™ library is one of the industry’s largest and most diverse fully human antibody libraries, with an estimated one quadrillion unique antibodies available for drug discovery and development. We believe G-MAB™ may offer the following advantages over competing antibody libraries:

• | G-MAB™ has been designed to provide a full spectrum of human immunoglobulin gene recombination in fully-human mAbs. Unlike chimeric and humanization technologies, G-MAB™ has allowed the generation of antibodies with fully-human protein sequences without the challenges and limitations of animal-to-human gene transfer procedures.


• | Because G-MAB™ represents an in vitro human mAb library technology, research suggests that it enables faster and cost-effective in vitro screening of a large number of antigens. G-MAB™ is designed so that any antigen of interest can be investigated, with no dependence on the successful induction of a host immune response against the antigen.

4

The following is a depiction of the types of fully human mAbs that we have derived from G-MAB™. It includes antibodies that bind to a wide range of targets, from small molecular weight antigens to large protein complexes antigens, such as G-Protein Coupled Receptors (“GPCRs”), a difficult class of antigens to raise therapeutic antibodies against.


Our objective is to leverage G-MAB™ to develop first in class or best in class antibody drug candidates that will possess greater efficacy and fewer side effects as compared to existing drugs and develop them as novel monotherapies, ADCs (such as c-MET), components of bispecific antibodies, and as part of our adoptive immunotherapy (CD38, CD123) and intracellular targeting programs (STAT3, mutant KRAS).
To date, we have screened over 100 validated targets and generated a number of fully human antibodies against these targets which are at various stages of development. These include PD-1, PD-L1, CD38, CD123, CD47, c-MET, VEGFR2, CCR2, OX40, TIGIT and CD137 among others. Upon the completion of preclinical studies, our objective is to, independently or in tandem with our strategic collaborators, file INDs for these product candidates.
The following diagrams highlight our key antibody-related strategic partnerships and programs:


LA Cell: Intracellular Targeting Antibodies (iTAbs)
With LA Cell, our exclusive joint venture with City of Hope, our objective is to become the global leader in the development of modified antibodies and other macromolecules against intracellular targets. Our internal research suggests that LA Cell’s platform is highly disruptive in that it uniquely enables the penetration of large molecules such as antibodies, peptides and modified DNA into disease cells. 
We are looking to apply this technology to specifically modulate formerly “undruggable” targets known in the evolution of cancer, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, diabetes, central nervous system diseases, cardiovascular diseases and viral infections.
Antibodies and other protein based therapeutics, compared to other drug modalities, have the advantage of specificity, ease of creation and long-lasting effects in vivo.  Although these therapies have benefited many patients across many solid and hematological malignancies, they are currently constrained in their ability to target solely extracellular proteins, either secreted 
5

or membrane bound.  Separately, small molecule drugs are less specific, depend on defined hydrophobic binding pockets and have proven difficult to administer long term given their many off-target toxicities.
In contrast, LA Cell’s proprietary technology and iTAbs enable the ability to modulate intracellular targets with modified antibodies derived from our G-MAB™ library. Our lead product candidates focus on key “undruggable” disease targets, such as STAT3, mutant KRAS, MYC and FOXP3 and we have designed constructs which are at various stages of in vitro and in vivo testing.
STAT3 iTAb
Our lead iTAb is targeted against STAT3 and has demonstrated the inhibition of STAT3 through phosphorylation and downstream gene modulation as well as cytotoxic/cytostatic activity in multiple human cancer cells in vitro.  STAT3 is a master regulator of genes controlling cell proliferation, survival, migration and immune suppression which is highly upregulated in human cancers.  Persistent STAT3 activation has been shown to lead to abnormal survival and tumorigenesis with constitutive STAT3 activation reported in 50-90% of human cancers. This prevalence can be attributed to STAT3’s position as the convergence point of several major oncogenic signaling including EGFR, HER2/Neu, platelet-PDGFR, IL-6R/gp130, c-MET, ABL and Src tyrosine kinases. We believe our STAT3 iTAb will be useful in the treatment of severely undertreated cancers such as glioblastoma. STAT3 has emerged as a key initiator and master regulator of mesenchymal transformation in malignant gliomas. We have completed in vitro and pharmacokinetic work and are currently conducting in vivo validation of this iTAb.
Mutant KRAS iTAb
Our second most advanced iTAb is targeted against mutant KRAS. 30% of human cancers possess activating RAS mutations, 85% of which are KRAS mutations which are most frequently present in colorectal, pancreatic and lung cancers. In vitro, our KRASG12D iTAb has demonstrated specific cytotoxic activity only in KRASG12D-expressing cancer cells but not in wild-type KRAS cells.
Biosimilar Antibody Portfolio
In August 2015, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Mabtech Limited to develop and commercialize four, late-stage clinical biosimilar or biobetter antibodies based on Erbitux®, Remicade®, Xolair® and Simulect® for the North American, European and Japanese markets. Each of these four antibody programs has completed Phase 3 clinical trials in China. We are assessing the regulatory and strategic path forward for this portfolio due to the fact that, if we are to follow the biosimilar route, we will be required to perform comparative studies versus the reference products in the U.S. and EU.
Pain Franchise
Our pain franchise consists of Scilex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“Scilex”), a private company which we acquired a majority interest in November 2016, and our RTX program (which was formerly held in our subsidiary, Scintilla Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Scintilla”) and is now held by Sorrento) as depicted below:

6

RTX
RTX is a small molecule with a non-opiate mechanism of action that may permanently eliminate intractable cancer pain experienced by end-stage cancer patients. When injected intraspinally or paraspinally, RTX directly interacts with nerve cells expressing TRPV1 receptors without affecting normal sensation (touch and vibration sense) or muscle function. RTX has been extensively tested in animals and was tested in an investigator-sponsored Phase I clinical trial at the NIH under a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA). To date, 12 patients with terminal cancer pain have been treated at the NIH.  
More recent studies in animals (translational work from our animal health subsidiary) have unveiled clinical potential of resiniferatoxin intra-articular injections for the control of pain associated with moderate to severe arthritis. Safety studies have been completed and we expect to commence a Phase I clinical trial in humans in the first half of 2018.
The mechanism of action for RTX is well understood and has been validated by extensive data in both animals and humans. In chronic pain states, TRPV1 is upregulated and expressed to a greater degree, resulting in central hypersensitivity and pathological pain states. When the drug is delivered, it targets and binds to TRPV1 receptors expressed by specific neurons in dorsal root ganglia and the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal column, or to the nerve endings if injected peripherally. RTX binding to TRPV1 results in calcium influx, which initiates programmed cell death (apoptosis) of only the targeted neurons (or axon endings) and, therefore, results in the reduction of pain transmitted by these TRPV1 positive neurons.
We expect to initiate a dose finding study using epidural administration of RTX in the first half of 2018, for the control of pain associated with terminal cancer.  Given our prior clinical experience with RTX, we expect that the drug will be well tolerated at all doses and that we will see a dose response.  We have hired a contract manufacturer to produce the cGMP drug substance and have sufficient material to complete the clinical development.  We have also secured enough raw materials to cover the commercial needs for several years, including the drug product, also produced by a contract manufacturer, for which we have sufficient vials in storage to complete clinical development. Our plan is to conduct Phase I trials for intrathecal application and epidural terminal cancer pain treatment as well as Phase I trials for osteoarthritis in 2018.
Scilex Pharmaceuticals: ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%)
Scilex leverages its core, proprietary technologies to responsibly develop next generation, branded pharmaceutical products to better manage critical conditions and maximize the quality of life of patients and healthcare providers. Scilex’s lead product candidate, ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%), is a next-generation lidocaine delivery system recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of postherpetic neuralgia (“PHN”), a severe neuropathic pain condition. ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%) is manufactured by our collaboration partner in their state of the art manufacturing facility.
The elderly population, individuals that have suffered a shingles infection, HIV/AIDS and cancer patients are at highest risk of contracting PHN. In the 2016 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Guideline for Prescribing Opioids in Chronic Pain, topical lidocaine is recommended for the treatment of neuropathic pain. The prescription lidocaine patch market for all indications totaled almost $700 million in 2015 in the U.S. 
ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%) is based on a novel and proprietary technology that contains only 36 mg of lidocaine versus Endo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s Lidoderm® (lidocaine patch 5%), which holds 700 mg of lidocaine per patch. In December 2016 and January 2017, Scilex reported key endpoints were met in the pivotal bioequivalence clinical trials for ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%). The full data package was resubmitted (the first 505(b)(2) new drug application filed in 2015 resulted in a Complete Response Letter from the FDA in May 2016, which meant that the FDA considered the drug application not ready for approval at that time) to the FDA as part of the 505(b)(2) new drug application (“NDA”) and accepted by the FDA in September 2017 (setting the Prescription Drug User Fee Act or FDA decision date on the resubmitted 505(b)(2) NDA for February 28, 2018) and filed with the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (“MHRA”) in the United Kingdom a hybrid Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) in November 2017. On February 28, 2018, the FDA approved ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%) for the relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia. Scilex is currently in preparations for a commercial launch of ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%) and exploring potential partnerships for the product. 
See the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the risks relating to the execution of our business strategy.
Recent Developments 
Termination of Binding Term Sheet Regarding Acquisition of Semnur Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
7

On August 15, 2016, our subsidiary, Scintilla, and Semnur Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Semnur”) entered into a binding term sheet (the “Semnur Binding Term Sheet”) setting forth the terms and conditions by which Scintilla would, through a subsidiary, purchase all of the issued and outstanding equity of Semnur. On October 6, 2017, the Semnur Binding Term Sheet was terminated without additional consideration, effective immediately.
Public Offering of Common Stock
On April 13, 2017, we entered into an underwriting agreement (the “Underwriting Agreement”) with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as representative of the several underwriters named therein (the “Underwriters”), relating to an underwritten public offering (the “Offering”) of 23,625,084 shares of our common stock. The public offering price was $2.00 per share of our common stock and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the shares of our common stock pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement at a price of $1.8571 per share. 
On April 19, 2017, the Offering was completed and resulted in net proceeds of approximately $43.5 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated Offering expenses payable by us.
Acquisition of Virttu Biologics Limited
On April 27, 2017, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the “Virttu Purchase Agreement”) with TNK, Virttu Biologics Limited (“Virttu”), the shareholders of Virttu (the “Virttu Shareholders”) and Dayspring Ventures Limited, as the representative of the Virttu Shareholders, pursuant to which, among other things, TNK acquired from the Virttu Shareholders 100% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Virttu (the “Virttu Acquisition”).
Virttu focuses on the development of oncolytic viruses that infect and selectively multiply in and destroy tumor cells without damaging healthy tissue. Its lead oncolytic virus candidate, Seprehvir, infects and replicates in cancer cells selectively, leaving normal cells unharmed.
Under the Virttu Purchase Agreement, the total amount of the consideration payable to the Virttu Shareholders in the Virttu Acquisition is equal to $25 million, less Virttu’s net debt (the “Virttu Base Consideration”). An additional $10 million contingent consideration is payable upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones (as described below) (the “Regulatory Approval Consideration”).
At the closing of the Virttu Acquisition (the “Closing”), on April 27, 2017, we issued to the Virttu Shareholders consideration valued at approximately $2.2 million, which consisted primarily of an aggregate of 797,081 shares (the “Virttu Closing Shares”) and approximately $557,000 in cash (the “Cash Consideration”). The issuance of the Closing Shares and the payment of the Cash Consideration satisfied TNK’s obligation to pay 20% of the Virttu Base Consideration at the Closing. Under the terms of the Virttu Purchase Agreement, we agreed to provide additional consideration to the Virttu Shareholders, as follows:
(1) Upon a financing resulting in gross proceeds (individually or in the aggregate) to TNK of at least $50.0 million (a “Qualified Financing”), TNK will issue to the Virttu Shareholders an aggregate number of shares of its capital stock (“TNK Capital Stock”) as is equal to the quotient obtained by dividing 80% of the Virttu Base Consideration by the lowest per share price paid by investors in the Qualified Financing (the “TNK Financing Consideration”); provided, however, that 20% of the TNK Financing Consideration shall be held in escrow until April 27, 2018 (the “Financing Due Date”), to be used to, among other things, satisfy the indemnification obligations of the Virttu Shareholders. In the event that a Qualified Financing does not occur, then on the Financing Due Date, we will issue to the Virttu Shareholders an aggregate number of shares of our common stock as is equal to the quotient obtained by dividing 80% of the Virttu Base Consideration, by $5.55 (as adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect any stock splits or similar events affecting our common stock after the Closing).
(2) Within 45 business days after Virttu becomes aware that certain governmental bodies in the United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom or Japan have approved for commercialization, on or before October 26, 2024, Seprehvir (or any enhancement, combination or derivative thereof) as a monotherapy or in combination with one or more other active components (each of the first two such approvals by a governmental body being a “Regulatory Approval”), TNK shall pay half of the Regulatory Approval Consideration to the Virttu Shareholders, in a combination of (a) up to $5.0 million in cash (the “Regulatory Approval Cash”) and/or (b) (i) such number of shares of our common stock as is equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $5.0 million less the Regulatory Approval Cash (the “Regulatory Approval Share Value”) by the 30 Day VWAP (as defined below) of one share of our common stock; (ii) if TNK has completed its first public offering of TNK Capital Stock, the number of shares of TNK Capital Stock as is equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the Regulatory Approval Share Value by the 30 Day VWAP of one share of TNK Capital Stock; or (iii) such number of shares of common stock of a publicly traded company as is equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the Regulatory Approval Share Value by the volume weighted average price of the relevant security, as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market (or other principal stock exchange or securities market 
8

on which the shares are then listed or quoted) for the thirty trading days immediately following the receipt of Regulatory Approval (the “30 Day VWAP”), with the composition of the Regulatory Approval Consideration to be at TNK’s option. In order for a second regulatory approval to qualify as a Regulatory Approval under the Purchase Agreement, the second approval must be granted by a different governmental body in a different jurisdiction than that which granted the first Regulatory Approval.
Celularity Transaction
On November 1, 2016, we loaned $5.0 million to Celularity, Inc., a research and development company (“Celularity”), pursuant to a promissory note issued by us to Celularity, as amended (as so amended, the “Celularity Note”), in connection with the entry into a nonbinding term sheet by us, TNK and Celularity.  Pursuant to the terms of the Celularity Note, the loan was due and payable in full on the earlier of November 1, 2017 and the occurrence of an event of default under the Celularity Note (the “Maturity Date”). Under the terms of the Celularity Note, in the event that Celularity met certain minimum financing conditions prior to the Maturity Date, all outstanding amounts under the Celularity Note would be forgiven and converted to equity. On May 31, 2017, we loaned an additional $2.0 million to Celularity pursuant to the terms of the Celularity Note. On June 14, 2017, we loaned an additional $1.0 million to Celularity. Additionally, on July 7, 2017, we loaned an additional $2.0 million to Celularity. The loan amounts were forgiven and converted to additional equity investment in Celularity as part of the closing of the Contribution Agreement (as defined below) on June 12, 2017.
On June 12, 2017, we entered into a Contribution Agreement (the “Contribution Agreement”) with TNK and Celularity, pursuant to which, among other things, we and TNK agreed to contribute certain intellectual property rights related to our proprietary chimeric antigen receptor (“CAR”) constructs and related CARs to Celularity in exchange for shares of Celularity’s Series A Preferred Stock equal to 25% of Celularity’s outstanding shares of capital stock, calculated on a fully-diluted basis (the "Celularity Shares"). 
On August 15, 2017, the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement closed, the loan amounts were forgiven, and, on such date, among other things, (a) Celularity issued the Celularity Shares to TNK, and (b) we, TNK and Celularity entered into a License and Transfer Agreement (the "License Agreement"). Pursuant to the License Agreement (i) TNK and we agreed to provide to Celularity (1) our CAR constructs and related CARs for use worldwide in combination with placenta-derived cells and/or cord blood-derived cells for the treatment of any disease or disorder except that anti-CD38 CAR constructs and related CARs may also be used in adult cells for the treatment of multiple myeloma unless TNK exercises its termination rights, and (2) our know-how relating to the foregoing, (ii) TNK and we granted to Celularity a limited, perpetual, transferable and sublicensable license and covenant not to sue with respect to certain of their patents and other intellectual property rights, which license is exclusive for a subset of such patents, and (iii) Celularity agreed to pay to TNK 50% of the first $200 million and 20% thereafter of any upfront and milestone payments that Celularity receives in connection with any sublicense of a combination of anti-CD38 CAR constructs and either placenta-driven cells and/or cord blood–derived cells or adult cells.
Termination of Servier License Agreement
On July 11, 2016, we announced a license and collaboration agreement with Les Laboratoires Servier, SAS, a corporation incorporated under the laws of France, and Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, a company duly organized and existing under the laws of France (individually and collectively, “Servier”) for the development, manufacture and commercialization of products using our fully human immuno-oncology anti-PD-1mAb STI-A1110 and provided support for Sevier’s initial development efforts (the “Servier License Agreement”).
Effective November 6, 2017, the Servier License Agreement was terminated by mutual agreement pursuant to its terms.
Private Placement of Convertible Promissory Notes and Warrants
On December 11, 2017, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Securities Purchase Agreement” or “Note SPA”) with certain accredited investors (collectively, the “Purchasers”). Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, on December 21, 2017, we issued and sold to the Purchasers, in a private placement transaction (the “Private Placement”), (1) convertible promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $50,000,000 (the “Notes”), which will accrue simple interest at a rate equal to 5.0% per annum and mature upon the earlier to occur of (a) December 21, 2022, and (b) the date of the closing of a change in control (the “Maturity Date”), and (2) warrants (the “Warrants”) to purchase an aggregate of 12,121,210 shares of our common stock. 
At any time and from time to time before the Maturity Date, each Purchaser shall have the option to convert any portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Purchaser’s Note that is equal to or greater than the lesser of: (1) $4,000,000, and 
9

(2) the then-outstanding principal amount of such Purchaser's Note into shares of our common stock at a price per share of $2.26875, subject to adjustment for stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions. Accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes shall be paid in cash semi-annually in arrears on or prior to the 30th day of June and 31st day of December of each calendar year commencing with the year ending December 31, 2018. If a Purchaser elects to convert any of the principal amount of their Note, then all accrued but unpaid interest on such portion of the principal amount shall become due and payable in cash. The Notes contain restrictive covenants and event of default provisions that are customary for transactions of this type.
Each Warrant has an exercise price of $2.61 per share, subject to adjustment for stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions, will become exercisable on June 20, 2018, has a term of five and a half years and is exercisable on a cash basis, unless there is not an effective registration statement covering the resale of the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, in which case the Warrants shall also be exercisable on a cashless exercise basis. 
Patents and Other Proprietary Rights
We are able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, is effectively maintained as a trade secret, or is protected by confidentiality agreements. Accordingly, patents and other proprietary rights are essential elements of our business.
We have multiple issued patents and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in selected foreign jurisdictions that cover our G-MAB™ technology, G-MAB™-derived antibodies, other proprietary antibody-centric technologies, and pain management compounds, including, but not limited to, the following:

1) | The G-MAB™ discovery antibody library technology. Certain aspects of this technology are covered by issued patents and are the subject matter of pending patent applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2023. 


2) | The G-MAB™-derived immuno-oncology antibody candidate portfolio. Certain of these antibody candidates are covered by issued patents and are the subject matter of pending applications and granted patents with potential patent coverage to at least 2033. 


3) | The bispecific antibody technology directed to the combination of one or more different monoclonal antibodies or fragments that can target multiple or different antigens. The bispecific antibody technology is the subject matter of pending applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2035. 


4) | The ADC technology using proprietary conjugation chemistries (called C-Lock and K-Lock), initially developed by Concortis Biosystems, Corp. ("Concortis"), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. This ADC technology is the subject matter of pending patent applications and granted patents with potential patent coverage to at least 2033. Additional pending patent applications directed to different toxin derivatives, are the subject matter of pending applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2035. 


5) | The CAR T-Cell based technology is an immunotherapy platform and is the subject matter of pending patent applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2035. Candidates arising from the platform are the subject matter of pending applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2037. 


6) | The CAR adoptive cellular immunotherapy using T cells and NK immune cells is directed to helping a patient’s immune system fight disease, including cancer. We have filed patent applications on the techniques for creating such therapies based on our CAR combination therapies providing with potential patent coverage to at least 2036. 


7) | The intracellular targeting antibody (iTAb) technology (LA Cell) for targeting intracellular targets for treating disease is the subject matter of pending patent applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2036. We have filed patent applications on improvements to this technology with potential patent coverage to at least 2038. 


8) | The new biosimilar / biobetter antibody technology using manufacture in certain cells (for example, directed to antigen targets such as EGFR or TNF-alpha) is the subject matter of pending patent applications with potential patent coverage to at least 2035.

10


9) | The RTX (resiniferatoxin)-based pain management technology. Certain aspects of this technology are covered by an issued patent in the U.S. providing patent protection to at least 2021 and are the subject matter of pending patent applications that will provide potential patent coverage to at least 2036.


10) | The lidocaine-based pain management technology, obtained by acquisition of Scilex Pharmaceuticals Inc. Certain aspects of this technology are covered by an issued U.S. patent with patent coverage to at least 2031. Additional patent applications to improvements of this technology have been filed with potential patent coverage to at least 2038. 

Certain factors can either extend patent terms or provide other forms of exclusivity (e.g., data exclusivity) for varying periods depending on the date of patent filing, date of grant or the legal term of a patent in the various jurisdictions in which patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, also depends upon the type of patent, the scope of claim coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the particular country.
While trade secret protection is an essential element of our business and we have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, we cannot guarantee that our unpatented proprietary technology will afford us significant commercial protection. We seek to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. Our employees and consultants also sign agreements requiring that they assign to us their interest in any intellectual property arising from their work for us. All employees sign an agreement not to engage in any conflicting employment or activity during their employment with us and not to disclose or misuse our confidential information. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached or invalidated and, if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that employees, consultants or third parties will not breach the confidentiality provisions in our contracts, infringe or misappropriate our trade secrets or other proprietary rights, or that measures we are taking to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate.
In the future, third parties may file claims asserting that our technologies or products infringe on their intellectual property. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert such claims against us or against the licensors of technology licensed to us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend ourselves against such claims, whether they are with or without merit and whether they are resolved in favor of, or against, our licensors or us, we may face costly litigation and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of such disputes, we may have to develop costly non-infringing technology or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
Government Regulation
Government authorities in the U.S. (including federal, state and local authorities) and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the manufacturing, research and clinical development, marketing, labeling and packaging, storage, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, advertising and promotion, pricing and export and import of pharmaceutical products, such as those we are developing. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Moreover, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, warning letters, clinical holds, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, injunction, disbarment, partial or total suspension of production or withdrawal of the product from the market. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us.
U.S. Government Regulations
In the U.S., the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”), and its implementing regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process required by the FDA before product candidates may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following:

• | submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin and must be updated annually;


• | completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests and preclinical animal studies, all performed in accordance with the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice (“GLP”) regulations. Preclinical testing generally includes evaluation of our product candidates in the laboratory or in animals to characterize the product and determine safety and efficacy;


• | performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for each proposed indication;

11


• | submission to the FDA of a Biologics License Application (“BLA”) or an NDA after completion of all pivotal clinical trials;


• | a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of a BLA or an NDA to file the NDA for review;


• | satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) and finished drug product are produced and tested to assess compliance with cGMP regulations; and


• | FDA review and approval of a BLA or an NDA prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug in the U.S.

In addition, we are subject to regulation under state, federal, and international laws and regulations regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, import and export of materials and products, environmental protection and the use and handling of hazardous substance control, and other regulations. Our clinical trial and research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemical compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our financial resources. In addition, disposal of radioactive materials used in our clinical trials and research efforts may only be made at approved facilities. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations including those relating to the handling and disposal of hazardous and toxic waste.
An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational drug product to humans. The central focus of an IND submission is on the general investigational plan and the protocol(s) for human studies. The IND also includes results of animal studies or other human studies, as appropriate, as well as manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature to support the use of the investigational new drug. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to the proposed clinical trials. In such a case, the IND may be placed on clinical hold and the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns or questions before clinical trials can begin. Accordingly, submission of an IND may or may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.
Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with Good Clinical Practices (“GCPs”), which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Additionally, approval must also be obtained from each clinical trial site’s institutional review board (“IRB”) before the trials may be initiated, and the IRB must monitor the study until completed. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and clinical trial results to public registries.
The clinical investigation of a drug is generally divided into three phases. Although the phases are usually conducted sequentially, they may overlap or be combined. The three phases of an investigation are as follows:

• | Phase I. Phase I includes the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into humans. Phase I clinical trials are typically closely monitored and may be conducted in patients with the target disease or condition or in healthy volunteers. These studies are designed to evaluate the safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the investigational drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. During Phase I clinical trials, sufficient information about the investigational drug’s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects may be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled and scientifically valid Phase II clinical trials. The total number of participants included in Phase I clinical trials varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80.


• | Phase II. Phase II includes controlled clinical trials conducted to preliminarily or further evaluate the effectiveness of the investigational drug for a particular indication(s) in patients with the disease or condition under study, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks associated with the drug. Phase II clinical trials are typically well-controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a limited patient population, usually involving no more than several hundred participants.


• | Phase III. Phase III clinical trials are generally controlled clinical trials conducted in an expanded patient population generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the drug has been obtained, and are intended to further evaluate dosage, clinical effectiveness and safety, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the

12

investigational drug product, and to provide an adequate basis for product approval. Phase III clinical trials usually involve several hundred to several thousand participants.
A pivotal trial is a clinical trial that adequately meets regulatory agency requirements for the evaluation of a drug candidate’s efficacy and safety such that it can be used to justify the approval of the product. Generally, pivotal trials are also Phase III trials but may be Phase II trials if the trial design provides a well-controlled and reliable assessment of clinical benefit, particularly in situations where there is an unmet medical need.
The FDA, the IRB or the clinical trial sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study. We may also suspend or terminate a clinical trial based on evolving business objectives and/or competitive climate.
Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, detailed investigational drug product information is submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications.
The application includes all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product’s chemistry, manufacturing, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. Data can come from company-sponsored clinical trials intended to test the safety and effectiveness of a use of a product, or from a number of alternative sources, including studies initiated by investigators. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and effectiveness of the investigational drug product to the satisfaction of the FDA.
Once the NDA submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA’s goal is to review applications within ten months of submission or, if the application relates to an unmet medical need in a serious or life-threatening indication, six months from submission. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA may refer the application to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it typically follows such recommendations.
After the FDA evaluates the NDA and conducts inspections of manufacturing facilities where the drug product and/or its API will be produced, it may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application is not ready for approval. A Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data, an additional pivotal Phase III clinical trial(s), and/or other significant, expensive and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, preclinical studies or manufacturing. Even if such additional information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA could also approve the NDA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (“REMS”) plan to mitigate risks, which could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct one or more post-market studies or clinical trials. Such post-market testing may include Phase IV clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product’s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. Regulatory approval of oncology products often requires that patients in clinical trials be followed for long periods to determine the overall survival benefit of the drug.
After regulatory approval of a drug product is obtained, we are required to comply with a number of post-approval requirements. As a holder of an approved NDA, we would be required to report, among other things, certain adverse reactions and production problems to the FDA, to provide updated safety and efficacy information, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for any of our products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval to ensure and preserve the long term stability of the drug product. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated, and, depending on the significance of the change, may require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, 
13

money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMP and other aspects of regulatory compliance.
We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production, distribution, shipping and storage of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at our facilities or at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or the failure to comply with applicable requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary, FDA-initiated or judicial action that could delay or prohibit further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and also may require the implementation of other risk management measures. Also, new government requirements, including those resulting from new legislation, may be established, or the FDA’s policies may change, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates under development.
Europe/Rest of World Government Regulations
In addition to regulations in the U.S., we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products.
Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Certain countries outside of the U.S. have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical trial application much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. In Europe, for example, a clinical trial application (“CTA”) must be submitted to each country’s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country’s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed.
The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug under European Union regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application. The application used to file the NDA in the U.S. is similar to that required in Europe, with the exception of, among other things, country-specific document requirements. For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, again, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Available Special Regulatory Procedures
Formal Meetings
We are encouraged to engage and seek guidance from health authorities relating to the development and review of investigational drugs, as well as marketing applications. In the U.S., there are different types of official meetings that may occur between us and the FDA. Each meeting type is subject to different procedures. Conclusions and agreements from each of these meetings are captured in the official final meeting minutes issued by the FDA.
The European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) also provides the opportunity for dialogue with us. This is usually done in the form of Scientific Advice, which is given by the Scientific Advice Working Party of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”). A fee is incurred with each Scientific Advice meeting.
Advice from either the FDA or EMA is typically provided based on questions concerning, for example, quality (chemistry, manufacturing and controls testing), nonclinical testing and clinical trials and pharmaco-vigilance plans and risk-management programs. Such advice is not legally binding on the sponsor. To obtain binding commitments from health 
14

authorities in the U.S. and the European Union, Special Protocol Assessment (“SPA”) or Protocol Assistance procedures are available. An SPA is an evaluation by the FDA of a protocol with the goal of reaching an agreement with the sponsor that the protocol design, clinical endpoints and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval of the product candidate with respect to effectiveness in the indication studied. The FDA’s agreement to an SPA is binding upon the FDA except in limited circumstances, such as if the FDA identifies a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of the product after clinical trials begin, or if the trial sponsor fails to follow the protocol that was agreed upon with the FDA. There is no guarantee that a trial will ultimately be adequate to support an approval even if the trial is subject to an SPA.
Orphan Drug Designation
The FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or if it affects more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making the drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the U.S. In the European Union, the EMA’s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products (“COMP”) grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than 5 in 10,000 persons in the European Union Community. Additionally, designation is granted for products intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition and when, without incentives, it is unlikely that sales of the drug in the European Union would be sufficient to justify the necessary investment in developing the drug or biological product.  
In the U.S., orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. In addition, if a product receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has orphan designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of 7 years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority over the product with orphan exclusivity.
In the European Union, orphan drug designation also entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and 10 years of market exclusivity is granted following drug or biological product approval. This period may be reduced to 6 years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity.
Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.
Authorization Procedures in the European Union
Medicines can be authorized in the European Union by using either the centralized authorization procedure or national authorization procedures.

• | Centralized procedure. The EMA implemented the centralized procedure for the approval of human medicines to facilitate marketing authorizations that are valid throughout the European Union. This procedure results in a single marketing authorization issued by the EMA that is valid across the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The centralized procedure is compulsory for human medicines that are: derived from biotechnology processes, such as genetic engineering, contain a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative disorders or autoimmune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, and officially designated orphan medicines.


• | For medicines that do not fall within these categories, an applicant has the option of submitting an application for a centralized marketing authorization to the EMA, as long as the medicine concerned is a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation, or if its authorization would be in the interest of public health.


• | National authorization procedures. There are also two other possible routes to authorize medicinal products in several countries, which are available for investigational drug products that fall outside the scope of the centralized procedure:


• | Decentralized procedure. Using the decentralized procedure, an applicant may apply for simultaneous authorization in more than one European Union country of medicinal products that have not yet been authorized in any European Union country and that do not fall within the mandatory scope of the centralized procedure.

15


• | Mutual recognition procedure. In the mutual recognition procedure, a medicine is first authorized in one European Union Member State, in accordance with the national procedures of that country. Following this, further marketing authorizations can be sought from other European Union countries in a procedure whereby the countries concerned agree to recognize the validity of the original, national marketing authorization.

Priority Review/Standard Review (U.S.) and Accelerated Review (European Union)
Based on results of the Phase III clinical trial(s) submitted in an NDA, upon the request of an applicant, the FDA may grant the NDA a priority review designation, which sets the target date for FDA action on the application at six months. Priority review is granted where preliminary estimates indicate that a product, if approved, has the potential to provide a safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists, or a significant improvement compared to marketed products is possible. If criteria are not met for priority review, the NDA is subject to the standard FDA review period of 10 months. Priority review designation does not change the scientific/medical standard for approval or the quality of evidence necessary to support approval.
Under the Centralized Procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days (excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP). Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is expected to be of a major public health interest, defined by three cumulative criteria: the seriousness of the disease (e.g., heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases) to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In this circumstance, EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days, excluding clock stops.
There can be no assurance that we or any of our partners would be able to satisfy one or more of these requirements to conduct preclinical or clinical trials or receive any regulatory approvals.
Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement
Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug products for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the U.S. and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor’s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.
In 2003, the U.S. government enacted legislation providing a partial prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries, which became effective at the beginning of 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, to obtain payments under this program, we would be required to sell products to Medicare recipients through prescription drug plans operating pursuant to this legislation. These plans will likely negotiate discounted prices for our products. Further, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Healthcare Reform Law”), substantially changed the way healthcare is financed in the U.S. by both government and private insurers. Among other cost containment measures, the Healthcare Reform Law established:

• | An annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;


• | A new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which pharmaceutical manufacturers who wish to have their drugs covered under Part D must offer discounts to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period (the “donut hole”); and


• | A new formula that increases the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.

16

We expect that federal, state and local governments in the U.S. will continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the drug candidates that we are developing.
Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Union, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country.
The marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements
If we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may be subject to various federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. For example, in the U.S., there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services or reward past purchases or recommendations. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs.
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was broadened by the Healthcare Reform Law, which, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, effective March 23, 2010. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The “qui tam” provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In addition, various states have enacted false claims laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer and not merely a federal healthcare program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim.
Also, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) created several new federal crimes, including healthcare fraud, and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private third-party payers. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services.
17

In addition, we may be subject to, or our marketing activities may be limited by HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, which established uniform standards for certain “covered entities” (healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses) and their business associates governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the security and privacy of protected health information.
Antibody Clinical Development
We currently focus our research efforts primarily in the identification and isolation of human antibody drug candidates and further characterize these antibody candidates in in vitro and in vivo functional testing. Due to our limited financial resources, we intend to actively seek product development and commercialization partners from the biopharmaceuticals industry to help us advance the clinical development of select product candidates.
Marketing and Sales
With the exception of our subsidiary, Scilex (which is in the process of preparing for a potential commercial launch for ZTlido™ (lidocaine topical system 1.8%)), we currently do not have any sales capabilities. We intend to license to, or enter into strategic alliances with, larger companies in the biopharmaceutical businesses or use the services of contract sales organizations ("CROs"), which are equipped to, market and/or sell our products, if any, through their well-developed marketing and sales teams and distribution networks. We intend to license some or all of our worldwide patent rights to more than one third party to achieve the fullest development, marketing and distribution of any products we develop.
Manufacturing and Raw Materials
We currently manufacture the majority of our preclinical and clinical materials in-house, and use contract manufacturers for the manufacture of some of our product candidates. We may or may not manufacture the products we develop, if any. Our internal manufacturing and contract manufacturers are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Regulatory authorities in our markets require that pharmaceutical products be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with cGMPs. We have established a quality control and quality assurance program, which includes a set of standard operating procedures and specifications designed to ensure that our products are manufactured in accordance with cGMPs, and other applicable domestic and foreign regulations.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 162 employees and 19 consultants and advisors. A significant number of our management and our other employees and consultants have worked or consulted with pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical product companies. While we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced scientific personnel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain the necessary qualified employees and/or consultants in the future.
None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and we consider relations with our employees to be good.
Research and Development
Our research and development expenses, excluding acquired in-process research and development expenses, totaled $55.5 million and $42.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Corporate Information
On September 21, 2009, QuikByte Software, Inc., a Colorado corporation and shell company (“QuikByte”), consummated its acquisition of Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc., a Delaware corporation and private concern (“STI”), in a reverse merger (the “Merger”). Pursuant to the Merger, all of the issued and outstanding shares of STI common stock were converted into an aggregate of 6,775,032 shares of QuikByte common stock and STI became a wholly owned subsidiary of QuikByte. The holders of QuikByte’s common stock immediately prior to the Merger held an aggregate of 2,228,333 shares of QuikByte’s common stock immediately following the Merger.
We were originally incorporated as San Diego Antibody Company in California in 2006 and were renamed “Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc.” and reincorporated in Delaware in 2009, prior to the Merger. QuikByte was originally incorporated in Colorado in 1989. Following the Merger, on December 4, 2009, QuikByte reincorporated under the laws of the State of 
18

Delaware (the “Reincorporation”). Immediately following the Reincorporation, on December 4, 2009, we merged with and into QuikByte, the separate corporate existence of STI ceased and QuikByte continued as the surviving corporation (the “Roll-Up Merger”). Pursuant to the certificate of merger filed in connection with the Roll-Up Merger, QuikByte’s name was changed from “QuikByte Software, Inc.” to “Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc.”
Address
Our principal executive offices are located at 4955 Directors Place, San Diego, CA 92121, and our telephone number at that address is (858) 203-4100. Our website is www.sorrentotherapeutics.com. Any information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way part of this Form 10-K.
Available Information
We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make available on our website at www.sorrentotherapeutics.com, free of charge, copies of these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Copies of our annual report to stockholders will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request.
The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
