Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business

ImmunoCellular Therapeutics, Ltd. is a clinical-stage biotechnology company that is developing immune-based therapies for the treatment of cancers. Immunotherapy is an emerging approach to treating cancer in which a patient’s own immune system is stimulated to target tumor antigens, which the immune system uses to identify foreign bodies. While some other cancer immunotherapies target only a single cancer antigen, our technology can elicit an immune response against several antigens simultaneously. Our clinical stage cancer immunotherapy programs are also distinguished by the fact that they target cancer stem cells (CSCs), which are the primary drivers of tumor growth and disease recurrence.
Review of Strategic Alternatives
We expect to devote substantial time and resources to exploring strategic alternatives that our board of directors believes will maximize stockholder value. Our consideration of strategic alternatives includes, but is not limited to, the potential for an acquisition, merger, business combination, licensing and/or other strategic transaction involving the company. Despite devoting significant efforts to identify and evaluate potential strategic transactions, we may not be successful in completing a transaction. Further, even if a strategic transaction is completed, it ultimately may not deliver the anticipated benefits or enhance stockholder value.
Research Program
We are developing Stem-to-T-Cell immunotherapies for the treatment of cancer based on rights to novel technology we exclusively licensed from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech). The technology originated from the labs of David Baltimore, Ph.D., Nobel Laureate and President Emeritus at Caltech, and utilizes the patient’s own hematopoietic stem cells to create antigen-specific killer T cells to treat cancer. We plan to utilize this technology to expand and complement our DC-based cancer immunotherapy platform, with the goal of developing new immunotherapies that kill cancer cells in a highly directed and specific manner and that can function as monotherapies or in combination therapy approaches.
Caltech’s technology potentially addresses the challenge, and limitation, that other immunotherapies, including TCR (T cell receptor) technologies, have faced of generating a limited immune response and having an unknown persistence in the patient’s body. We believe that by inserting DNA that encodes T cell receptors into hematopoietic stem cells rather than into T cells, the immune response can be transformed into a durable and more potent response that could effectively treat solid tumors. This observation has been verified in animal models by investigators at Caltech.
In March 2017, we announced the successful completion of the first milestone of our Stem-to-T-cell program, the sequencing of a selected TCR, which will become the basis for the product development program. In November 2015, we entered into a sponsored research agreement with The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center with the goal of identifying a TCR sequence. In addition, in 2015 we acquired an option from Stanford University to evaluate certain technology related to the identification of TCRs that could prove useful in supporting our Stem-to-T-Cell research efforts. In March 2017, a TCR sequence for our Stem-to-T-Cell program became available.
In December 2017, we announced that we successfully packaged a TCR DNA sequence into a lentiviral vector, which was then used to transfect human hematopoietic stem cells and initiated in vitro proof of concept work.
In addition, we entered into a sponsored research agreement with the University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) in January 2016. As part of this collaboration, UMB researchers are undertaking three projects to explore potential enhancements to our dendritic cell and Stem-to-T-Cell immunotherapy platforms.
Clinical Product Candidates
Active Immunotherapy
Dendritic cells (DCs) are cells responsible for antigen processing and presentation to the immune system and play a central role in the body’s immune response. They act as first responders that initiate a T cell response to fight infections or foreign bodies. DCs do this by recognizing, processing and presenting foreign antigens to the T cells. Thus, they are powerful potentiators of acquired immunity through an effective presentation of the cancer antigens to T cells, which subsequently mediate the killing of cancer cells. The goal of DC-based immunotherapies is to (i) make use of and enhance the DCs ability to trigger a T cell response and (ii) stimulate DCs to focus the T cell response to specifically target and destroy cancer cells.
DCs normally do not effectively target malignant tumors, since they do not recognize the tumor as a foreign body that needs to be eliminated. Also, they are typically not present in sufficient numbers to permit an adequately potent immune 
2

response to fight cancer. DC therapy typically involves harvesting peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from a patient, culturing them and processing them in a laboratory to produce a sufficient number of highly potent DCs. The DCs are then cultured with tumor-associated antigens and injected back into the patient, where they can signal T cells to seek out and destroy cancer cells that express the tumor-associated antigens.
ICT-107
ICT-107 is a DC immunotherapy for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most common and lethal type of brain cancer. The American Cancer Society (ACS) estimates that about 23,800 malignant tumors of the brain and spinal cord will be diagnosed in the U.S. in 2017. GBM is the most prevalent and aggressive form of brain cancer. Over 10,000 new patients are diagnosed with GBM in the U.S. each year. Despite advances in surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, recurrence is almost a certainty, occurring on average within 6.9 months. The median survival time for newly diagnosed GBM patients is only 14.6 months, and fewer than 10% of these patients live more than five years.
ICT-107 is a DC immunotherapy that targets six different tumor-associated antigens that are found on patients’ tumor cells; at least four of the six antigens are highly expressed on cancer stem cells. The immunotherapy is intended to be used subsequent to conventional therapy or concomitantly with chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. Results from a phase 1 clinical trial at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles showed that ICT-107 was well tolerated, with no significant adverse events reported. As of the last update in March of 2016, six of 16 patients with newly diagnosed GBM treated with ICT-107 continue to survive more than seven years beyond first treatment. Five of the 16 patients were disease free over five years from first treatment. The median PFS in the 16 newly diagnosed patients enrolled in the trial was 16.9 months, and median OS was 38.4 months.
In June 2010, ICT-107 was granted Orphan Drug status by the FDA, making the product candidate eligible, under certain circumstances, for marketing exclusivity and other potential benefits.
 ICT-107 completed phase 2 testing with results reported in December 2013. Additional updated results were reported in June 2014 and October 2014. In October 2015, overall survival (OS) was additionally updated and reported. The phase 2 clinical trial was designed as a double-blind, placebo-controlled (2:1 randomized), multicenter evaluation of the safety and efficacy of ICT-107 in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. From January 2011 until September 2012, 124 patients were randomized to standard of care treatment plus ICT-107 or standard of care plus placebo (i.e. control). The most recent results are summarized in Table 1.


Table 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Overall Survival* | | | | Median Overall Survival - in Months | | | | 
Population | | Patients Randomized | | Treatment Group | | Placebo Group | | Difference | | P Value | | HR Ratio
Intent to treat (ITT) | | 124 | | 18.3 | | 16.7 | | 1.6 | | 0.436 | | 0.846 
Per Protocol (PP) HLA-A2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
 | MGMT Methylated | | 31 | | 37.7 | | 23.9 | | 13.8 | | 0.645 | | 0.800
 | MGMT Unmethylated | | 38 | | 15.8 | | 11.8 | | 4.0 | | 0.326 | | 0.704


Progression Free Survival* | | | Median Progression Free Survival - in Months | | | | 
Population | | Patients Randomized | | Treatment Group | | Placebo Group | | Difference | | P Value | | HR Ratio
ITT | | 124 | | 11.4 | | 10.1 | | 1.3 | | 0.033 | | 0.640 
PP HLA-A2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
MGMT Methylated | | 31 | | 24.1 | | 8.5 | | 15.6 | | 0.004 | | 0.257 
 | MGMT Unmethylated | | 38 | | 10.5 | | 6.0 | | 4.0 | | 0.364 | | 0.720
* Overall survival data from October 2015; progression free survival from October 2014. | | | | | | 

Patients in the phase 2 study were HLA-A1, A2, or dual A1/A2. HLA type refers to a person’s human leukocyte antigen status which corresponds to a family of genes that regulate the immune system. Though the ICT-107 immunotherapy is designed for all three of these HLA types, the most benefit and best immune responses were observed in patients who were HLA-A2 positive (about 50% of the GBM population in the US and Europe). Thus, the phase 3 includes only patients who are HLA-A2 positive. We analyzed HLA-A2 positive patients according to their MGMT gene status (unmethylated or methylated) which is a known predictor of responsiveness to standard of care chemotherapy. MGMT is a gene involved with DNA repair. 
3

As the standard of care chemotherapy in GBM works by damaging DNA, an active repair mechanism diminishes or precludes benefit from chemotherapy. MGMT unmethylated tumor cells can repair DNA damage while MGMT methylated cells cannot. While the subgroups were small in size, and not powered to show statistical significance, the number advantages in favor of the ICT-107 treated patients were shown to be large and potentially clinically meaningful. ICT-107 was generally well tolerated, with no imbalance in adverse events between the treated and control groups. 
We decided to pursue phase 3 testing of ICT-107 in HLA-A2 patients on the basis of the updated phase 2 ICT-107 trial data, post-phase 2 discussions with U.S. and European regulators and consultation with GBM key opinion leaders.
Patient screening began in November 2015 in the U.S. As of December 31, 2016, we had 64 active trial sites in the U.S. and one in Canada. Furthermore, 293 patients had been screened, 37 of whom had successful manufacturing runs to produce ICT-107 and control. The first patient in the trial was treated on June 7, 2016. 
The phase 3 trial of ICT-107 was terminated in June 2017. At the time, 53 patients had been randomized to treatment.  Those patients were given the option of continuing treatment with ICT-107 through investigator-sponsored studies at the individual clinical sites.  In all, 34 patients and 17 clinical sites elected to participate in these investigator-sponsored studies.
In June 2017, we determined that we were unable to secure sufficient additional financial resources to complete the phase 3 registration trial of ICT-107. As a result, we have terminated further patient randomization in the ICT-107 trial while we continue to seek a collaborative arrangement or acquisition of our ICT-107 program. The termination of the phase 3 registration trial of ICT-107 is expected to reduce the amount of cash used in our operations.
ICT-140
The ACS estimates that about 22,440 women in the U.S. will receive a new diagnosis of ovarian cancer and about 14,080 will die from ovarian cancer in 2017. The National Cancer Institute reports that ovarian cancer is the ninth leading cause of cancer death in the U.S. for women and the lifetime risk is approximately 1.4%. By contrast, according to the most recent estimates 39% of women who inherit a harmful BRCA1 mutation and 11% to 17% of women who inherit a harmful BRCA2 mutation will develop ovarian cancer by age 70.
Ovarian cancer usually spreads via local shedding into the peritoneal cavity followed by implantation on the peritoneum and via local invasion of bowel and bladder. The incidence of positive nodes at primary surgery has been reported to be as much as 24% in patients with stage I disease, 50% in patients with stage II disease, 74% in patients with stage III disease and 73% in patients with stage IV disease. The five-year survival rate for all stages of ovarian cancer is approximately 44%. For cases where a diagnosis is made early in the disease, when the cancer is still confined to the primary site, the five-year survival rate is 92%. However, only 15% of all ovarian cancers are found at this early stage.
Many ovarian cancers are spontaneously invaded by T cells, and patients whose tumors have tumor-infiltrating T cells survive longer. As a result, we believe that cancer immunotherapies may improve the survival rate of patients with ovarian cancer.
ICT-140 is a DC immunotherapy that targets seven tumor-associated antigens expressed on ovarian cancer cells. Some of the antigens utilized in ICT-140 are also used in ICT-107. We filed an investigational new drug (IND) application for ICT-140 at the end of 2012 and the IND was allowed by the FDA in January 2013. We subsequently twice modified the design of the trial and amended the IND to reflect these changes in May 2013 and September 2014. These amendments were allowed by the FDA shortly after the submissions. During the interim time period, we upgraded our generalized DC immunotherapy manufacturing process to bring it to the level of phase 3 and commercial ready. We plan to use this improved process to manufacture clinical supplies for the ICT-140 trial. Currently, we are postponing the initiation of this trial until we find a partner to share expenses.
ICT-121
We and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center have discovered antigen peptides that can elicit a T cell immune response against CD133, a marker that is commonly present on CSCs. CD133-positive CSCs have been identified in a number of different cancers, including gliomas, colon cancer and pancreatic cancer.
ICT-121 specifically targets CD133, a CSC marker that is overexpressed in a wide variety of solid tumors, including ovarian, pancreatic, and breast cancers. We began screening patients in September 2013 for a single-site phase 1 trial in recurrent GBM. Originally, it was our intention to enroll 20 patients at one site. However, during 2014, we determined that enrollment could be accelerated if additional sites were added to the study. In 2015 we added five sites and made modifications in the screening criteria to facilitate enrollment. As of July 21, 2016, the trial was fully enrolled. The trial was completed in the first quarter of 2017 and preliminary results were presented at ASCO in June 2017. Those results are summarized as follows:

• | ICT-121 is generally safe and well-tolerated


• | Six of twenty treated patients were still alive as of the May 2017 and these patients will be followed for survival

4


• | While the diversity (disease severity) of the patient population resulting from the protocol amendment makes interpretation of survival data difficult the results are encouraging


• | The immune response data (not yet available) will be used to assess effectiveness of ICT-121 in inducing formation of cytotoxic T cells specific for the CD-133 target

We are considering our options on how to further develop ICT-121.
Manufacturing
For both our research program and clinical product candidates, autologous cell-based therapies must be manufactured separately for each patient. Consequently, the manufacturing costs are typically higher than other types of therapies that are not patient-specific. Our DC immunotherapy manufacturing process produces multiple doses for a patient from a single manufacturing run utilizing a single apheresis from the patient. Each manufacturing run takes three days to complete. In addition, the immunotherapy is stored frozen in liquid nitrogen making the logistics of shipping and administration to the patient easier than those for cell therapies that must be shipped fresh and administered to the patient within hours of manufacture.
Future Financial Requirements
While we believe that we have a promising technology portfolio of multiple clinical-stage candidates, we do not currently anticipate that we will generate any revenues from either product sales or licensing in the foreseeable future. The estimated cost of completing the development of any of the current or potential immunotherapy candidates will require us to raise additional capital, generate additional capital from the uncertain exercise of outstanding warrants, or enter into collaboration agreements with third parties. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain any additional funding, or if such funding is available, that the terms will be favorable. In addition, collaborations with third parties may not be available to us and may require us to surrender rights to many of our products, which may reduce the potential share of returns in any licensed products. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital or secure collaborations with third parties, we will not be able to further develop our product candidates.
Recent Developments
We are undertaking an evaluation of strategic alternatives for our immuno-oncology research and development pipeline and technology platform, which may include a potential merger, consolidation, reorganization or other business combination, as well as the sale of the company or the company’s assets. While we evaluate strategic alternatives, we plan to continue to advance our research and development strategies.
In February 2018, we engaged Ladenburg Thalmann & Company, Inc. to identify and introduce us to prospective financial investors, strategic corporate investors, acquirers of equity or assets, merger partners and/or other potential acquirers. 
Intellectual Property Agreements
Cedars-Sinai Agreements
In May 2015, we entered into an Amended and Restated Exclusive License Agreement (the Amended License Agreement) with Cedars-Sinai. Pursuant to the Amended License Agreement, we acquired an exclusive, worldwide license from Cedars-Sinai to certain patent rights and technology developed in the course of research performed at Cedars-Sinai into the diagnosis of diseases and disorders in humans and the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans utilizing cellular therapies, including DC-based immunotherapies for brain tumors and other cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. Under the Amended License Agreement, we will have exclusive rights to, among other things, develop, use, manufacture, sell and grant sublicenses to the licensed technology.
We have agreed to pay Cedars-Sinai specified milestone payments related to the development and commercialization of ICT-107, ICT-121 and ICT-140. Among other milestone payments, we are required to pay to Cedars-Sinai specified milestone payments upon commencement of the first phase 3 clinical trial for our first product and upon first commercial sale of our first product. Upon the commencement of the first phase 3 clinical trial for ICT-107, which occurred in January 2016, we paid Cedars-Sinai the required milestone payment of $100,000. Upon the first commercial sale of our first product, the required milestone payments will be $1.0 million. We will pay Cedars-Sinai single digit percentages of gross revenues from the sales of products and high-single digit to low-double digit percentages of our sublicensing income based on the licensed technology.
The Amended License Agreement will terminate on a country-by-country basis on the expiration date of the last-to-expire licensed patent right in each such country. Either party may terminate the Amended License Agreement in the event of the other party’s material breach of its obligations under the Agreement if such breach remains uncured 60 days after such party’s receipt of written notice of such breach. Cedars-Sinai may also terminate the Amended License Agreement upon 30 days’ written notice to us that a required payment by us to Cedars-Sinai under the Amended License Agreement is delinquent.
5

We have also entered into various sponsored research agreements with Cedars-Sinai and has paid an aggregate of approximately $1.2 million. The last agreement concluded on March 19, 2014 at an incremental cost of $126,237. As of December 31, 2017, Cedars-Sinai is not performing any research activities on behalf of the Company.
Dr. John Yu, a co-inventor of our cellular-based therapy technology who serves on our Board of Directors, is employed by Cedars-Sinai, which may assert that future intellectual property generated by Dr. Yu belongs to that institution rather than to us, and we may be required to seek a license from Cedars-Sinai for any such rights.
The Johns Hopkins University Licensing Agreement
In February 2012, we entered into a license agreement with The Johns Hopkins University (JHU), pursuant to which we received an exclusive, worldwide license to JHU’s rights in and to certain technology related to mesothelin-specific cancer immunotherapies. The license covers the application of this technology for all mesothelin peptide-based immunotherapies for cancer treatment and prevention, except bacteria-based, viral vector-based and nucleic acid-based immunotherapies. Unless earlier terminated, the term of the license extends in each country until the later of the expiration of the last patent related to the licensed technology in that country or ten years after the effective date of the license agreement. In order to maintain our license rights under the license agreement, we are required to meet certain diligence milestones and timelines.
Pursuant to the license agreement, we paid an upfront licensing fee in the low hundreds of thousands of dollars, payable half in cash and half in shares of common stock. We are obligated to pay milestone license fees upon completion of specified milestones totaling single digit millions of dollars if all milestones are met, customary royalties based on a low single digit percentage of net sales and sublicensing payments shared at a low double digit percentage, as well as annual minimum royalties increasing over time and ranging from low tens of thousands to low hundreds of thousands of dollars. We will also be responsible for reimbursing JHU for reasonable costs associated with the preparation, filing, maintenance and prosecution of the technology subject to the license. In September 2013, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the license agreement that updated certain milestones. In August 2015, we entered into a Second Amendment to Exclusive License Agreement that amended certain sections of the license agreement and further updated certain milestones.
California Institute of Technology
On September 9, 2014, we entered into an Exclusive License Agreement with the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) under which we acquired exclusive rights to novel technology for the development of certain stem cell treatments that are potentially capable of producing antigen specific T cell killing of cancer cells.
Pursuant to the License Agreement, we agreed to pay a one-time license fee, a minimum annual royalty based on a low single digit percentage of net revenues and an annual maintenance fee in the low tens of thousands of dollars. In addition, we have agreed to make certain milestone payments upon completion of specified milestones.
Competition
The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions, and universities are conducting research and development in a number of areas similar to those that we focus on. The development of new products could compete with and be superior to our product candidates.
Many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources. A number of these companies may have or may develop technologies for products that could be superior to ours. We expect technological developments in the biopharmaceutical and related fields to occur at a rapid rate, and believe competition will intensify as these fields advance. Accordingly, we will be required to devote substantial resources and efforts to research and development activities in order to potentially achieve and maintain a competitive position. Products that we develop may become obsolete before we are able to market them or to recover all or any portion of our research and development expenses. We may be competing with companies that have significantly more experience in undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials with new or improved therapeutic products and obtaining regulatory approvals of such products. A number of these companies already market and may be in advanced phases of clinical testing of various drugs that may compete with our product candidates or any future product candidates that we may develop. Competitors may develop or commercialize products more rapidly than we do, or that have significant advantages over products we develop. Therefore, our competitors may be more successful in commercializing their products, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business.
In addition to sipuleucel-T and ipilimumab, which have been approved for sale by the FDA, several major biopharmaceutical companies, including Abbvie, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co., Gilead, Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer Inc., Genentech, Inc. (a member of the Roche Group), Amgen Inc., Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Celgene Corporation and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, smaller biotechnology companies, such as Oncothyreon Inc., Galena Biopharma, Inc., Agenus Inc., Bavarian Nordic A/S, Kite Pharma, Inc., Juno 
6

Therapeutics, Inc. and Immunovaccine Inc., are developing cancer immunotherapies. A number of immunotherapy companies, including Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc., Prima Biomed Ltd and DC Prime B.V., also utilize DCs for their therapeutic cancer immunotherapies.
In addition to the previously mentioned companies developing cancer immunotherapies, there are also several pharmaceutical companies, including OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Verastem, Inc., Stemline Therapeutics, Inc. and Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., that are pursuing drugs that target CSCs. Stemline is currently developing a peptide treatment, SL-701, for brain cancer.
Colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technologies that they have developed, some of which may directly compete with our product candidates or any future product candidates that we may develop. Governments of a number of foreign countries are aggressively investing in cellular therapy research and promoting such research by public and private institutions within those countries. Domestic and foreign institutions and governmental agencies, along with pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology companies, can be expected to compete with us in recruiting qualified scientific personnel.
Our competitive position will be significantly impacted by the following factors, among others:

• | our ability to obtain FDA marketing approval for our product candidates on a timely basis;


• | the level of acceptance of our products by physicians, compared to those of competing products or therapies;


• | our ability to have our products manufactured on a commercial scale;


• | the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts on behalf of our products;


• | our ability to meet demand for our products;


• | our ability to secure insurance reimbursement for our products;


• | the price of our products relative to competing products or therapies;


• | our ability to recruit and retain appropriate management and scientific personnel; and


• | our ability to develop a commercial-scale research and development, manufacturing and marketing infrastructure, either on our own or with one or more future strategic partners.

Company Information
We filed our original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware on March 20, 1987 under the name Redwing Capital Corp. On June 16, 1989, we changed our name to Patco Industries, Ltd. and conducted an unrelated business under that name until 1994. On January 30, 2006, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to change our name to Optical Molecular Imaging, Inc. in connection with our merger on January 31, 2006 with Spectral Molecular Imaging, Inc. The acquisition was accounted for as a reverse merger, with Spectral Molecular Imaging deemed to be the accounting acquirer and Optical Molecular Imaging deemed to be the legal acquirer.  As such, the consolidated financial statements herein reflect the historical activity of Spectral Molecular Imaging since its inception on February 25, 2004.  On November 2, 2006, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to change our name to ImmunoCellular Therapeutics, Ltd. to reflect the disposition of our Spectral Molecular Imaging subsidiary and the acquisition of our cellular-based technology from Cedars-Sinai.
Our principal executive offices are located at 30721 Russell Ranch Road, Suite 140, Westlake Village, California 91362, and our telephone number at that address is (818) 264-2300.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had four employees. In addition, we have a number of consulting agreements with individuals and groups to support clinical development, regulatory affairs, investor relations and business development. We outsource all of our drug discovery research, process development, manufacturing and clinical development to third parties with expertise in those areas.
Government Regulation 
The United States and other developed countries extensively regulate the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of drugs and 
7

biologic products. The FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations, regulates pharmaceutical and biologic products.
To obtain approval of our product candidates from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy, or for biologics, safety, purity and potency, for the intended indication as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate. In most cases, this will require extensive laboratory tests and preclinical and clinical trials. The collection of these data, as well as the preparation of applications for review by the FDA involve significant time and expense. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing to monitor the safety and efficacy of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the therapeutic claims and commercial applications of these products. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if we encounter problems at any time following initial marketing of our products.
The first stage of the FDA approval process for a new biologic or drug involves completion of preclinical studies and the submission of the results of these studies to the FDA. This data, together with proposed clinical protocols, manufacturing information, analytical data and other information submitted to the FDA, in an investigational new drug application (IND), must become effective before human clinical trials may commence. Preclinical studies generally involve FDA regulated laboratory evaluation of product characteristics and animal studies to assess the efficacy and safety of the product candidate.
After the IND becomes effective, a company may commence human clinical trials. However, the FDA may place the IND on clinical hold at any time, which requires that issues concerning safety of the product or trial be resolved to the FDA’s satisfaction prior to resuming activities under the IND. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing of the product candidate in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses. Phase 1 trials in cancer are often conducted with patients who are not healthy and who have end-stage or metastatic cancer. Phase 2 trials, in addition to safety, evaluate the efficacy of the product candidate in a patient population somewhat larger than phase 1 trials. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at multiple test sites. A company must submit to the FDA a clinical protocol, accompanied by the approval of the Institutional Review Boards at the institutions participating in the trials, prior to commencement of each clinical trial. Before proceeding with a phase 3 clinical trial, sponsors may seek a written agreement from the FDA regarding the design, size, and conduct of a clinical trial. This is known as a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA. SPAs help establish up front agreement with the FDA about the adequacy of the design of a clinical trial to support a regulatory approval, but the agreement is not binding if new circumstances arise. In addition, even if a SPA remains in place and the trial meets its endpoints with statistical significance, the FDA could determine that the overall balance of risks and benefits for the product candidate is not adequate to support approval, or only justifies approval for a narrow set of clinical uses or approval with restricted distribution or other burdensome post-approval requirements or limitations.
To obtain FDA marketing authorization, a company must submit to the FDA the results of the preclinical and clinical testing, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate, in the form of a new drug application (NDA) or, in the case of a biologic, like DC-based immunotherapies for neurological disorders, a biologics license application (BLA). The FDA has sixty days after the sponsor’s submission of an NDA or BLA to file the application and begin the user fee review period. Unless an exemption applies, each BLA we submit will be required to be accompanied by a substantial user fee payment.
The amount of time taken by the FDA for approval of an NDA or BLA will depend upon a number of factors, including whether the product candidate qualifies for priority review, the quality of the submission and studies presented, the potential contribution that the compound will make in improving the treatment of the disease in question, and the workload at the FDA. The FDA has committed to reviewing standard BLAs in 10 months from filing and priority BLAs in six months from filing, but the actual time it takes to review any BLA that we may submit could be substantially longer.
The FDA may, during its review of an NDA or BLA, ask for additional test data that may require the conduct of additional clinical trials. If the FDA does ultimately approve the product candidate for marketing, it may require post-marketing testing to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the product. The FDA also may in some circumstances impose restrictions on the use of the product, such as a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, which may be difficult and expensive to administer and may require prior approval of promotional materials.
We will also be subject to a variety of regulations governing clinical trials and sales of our products outside the United States. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product candidate by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries and regions must be obtained prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from one regulatory authority to another and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. In the European Union, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar, in principle, to those in the United States.
Before approving a BLA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the manufacturing facilities are in compliance with the FDA’s cGMP, which are regulations that govern the 
8

manufacture, holding and distribution of a product. Manufacturers of biologics also must comply with the FDA’s general biological product standards. Following approval, the FDA periodically inspects drug and biologic manufacturing facilities to ensure continued compliance with the good manufacturing practices regulations. We must ensure that any third-party manufacturers continue to comply with those requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing or recall or seizure of product. Adverse patient experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of marketing restrictions through labeling changes or market removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval.
The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product also must comply with FDA and Federal Trade Commission, requirements, which include, among others, standards and regulations for off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, promotional activities involving the internet, and direct-to-consumer advertising. We also will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. In addition, we will be subject to various laws and regulations governing laboratory practices and the experimental use of animals. In each of these areas, as above, the FDA has broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of product approvals, seize or recall products, and deny or withdraw approvals.
We also will be subject to federal regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal and state regulatory statutes, and may in the future be subject to other federal, state or local regulations.
We may be subject to data privacy and security regulations by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA’s privacy and security standards directly applicable to business associates independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.
Orphan Drug Act
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug or biologic for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug or biologic. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. The orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process.
If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full BLA, to market the same biologic for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent FDA from approving a different drug or biologic for the same disease or condition, or the same drug or biologic for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the BLA application user fee.
A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. In addition, exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the product to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.
Available Information
9

We file electronically with the SEC our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov.
You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC, on our website at www.imuc.com or by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices at (818) 264-2300. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.
