Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
The following discussion, as well as other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (or statements otherwise made by the Company or on the Company’s behalf from time to time in other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), news releases, conferences, World Wide Web postings or otherwise), contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Any such forward-looking statements (including, but not limited to, statements to the effect that TLF or its management “anticipates”, “plans”, “estimates”, “expects”, “believes”, “intends”, and other similar expressions) that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read carefully because they involve risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Specific examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our forecasts of financial performance, share repurchases, store openings, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. Our actual results could materially differ from those discussed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and particularly in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “we”, “our”, “us”, “our Company”, “the Company”, “Tandy”,”Tandy Leather” or “TLF”, mean Tandy Leather Factory, Inc, together with its subsidiaries.
 
General
 
With $82.3 million of sales in 2017 (of which 14% were export sales), Tandy Leather is, to our knowledge, the world’s largest specialty retailer of leather and leathercraft related items based on sales, offering a wide range of leather, quality tools, hardware, accessories, liquids, lace, kits and teaching materials. We sell our products through company-owned stores and through orders generated from our website, www.tandyleather.com. We also manufacture the leather lace and some of our do-it-yourself kits that are sold in our stores and website.  We maintain our principal offices at 1900 Southeast Loop 820, Fort Worth, Texas 76140.  Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "TLF."
 
Our company was founded in 1980 as Midas Leathercraft Tool Company, a Texas corporation (“Midas”), which focused on the distribution of leathercraft tools.  In addition, the founders of Midas entered into an agreement with Brown Group, Inc., a major footwear retailer, to develop a chain of wholesale stores known as "The Leather Factory."  In 1985, Midas purchased the assets related to The Leather Factory stores from Brown Group, Inc., which then consisted of six stores.  In 1993, we changed our name to The Leather Factory, Inc.  We reincorporated in the state of Delaware in 1994.  In 2005, we changed our name to Tandy Leather Factory, Inc.
 
Our Development in Recent Years
 
We have built our business by offering our customers quality products in one location at competitive prices.  We have expanded our store footprint by opening new stores and by making numerous acquisitions of small businesses in strategic geographic locations.  In 1996, we expanded into Canada by acquiring our Canadian distributor, The Leather Factory of Canada, Ltd.  In 2000, we acquired the operating assets of two subsidiaries of Tandycrafts, Inc.  We began expanding outside of North America by opening a store in the United Kingdom in 2008, then Australia in 2011 and Spain in 2012.  We opened another store in the United Kingdom in 2015.  At December 31, 2017, we operated 115 stores located in North America and 4 stores in the United Kingdom, Australia and Spain.  
 
The following tables provide store count and expansion information by segment for the last five years:
 

 | North America | International
-----------+---------------+--------------
Year ended | Opened | Closed | Total | Opened | Closed | Total
2013 | 3 | 2 | 108 | - | - | 3 
2014 | 3 | 1 | 110 | - | - | 3 
2015 | - | - | 110 | 1 | - | 4 
2016 | 4 | 3* | 111 | - | - | 4 
2017 | 4* | - | 115 | - | - | 4 

 *1 store temporarily closed in April 2016 and reopened in January 2017
 
We believe that the key to our success is our ability to profitably grow our base business.  We expect to grow that business by opening new stores and by increasing sales in our existing stores. Our initiatives to increase sales include new merchandising with an expanded product line intended to increase our retail customer base, a refocus on business development to our wholesale and manufacturer groups, improvements to our digital and e-commerce channels, as well as increasing our average ticket.  We have also increased our training efforts with our store associates to strengthen their product knowledge.  We believe that our store associates, armed with a solid knowledge of our extensive product line, can drive higher average tickets and traffic conversion.
 
Our mission is to teach and inspire the art of leathercrafting, one person, one class, one neighborhood, one community at a time. Our rich heritage began with Tandy Leather Company, which was originally established in 1919 as Hinkley-Tandy Leather Company, one of the oldest and one of the best-known suppliers of leather and related products used in the leathercraft industry.  Tandy has long been known for its commitment to promoting and developing the craft through education and customer development.  We continue to seek to broaden our customer base by opening new stores, working with various youth organizations and institutions where people are introduced to leathercraft, as well as hosting classes in our stores.  In 2017, we began offering military and first responder appreciation programs which gives eligible customers discounted pricing.
 
We are also focusing on improving our customer experience, increasing our brand awareness, and strengthening our store performance.   To help achieve those goals, in early 2017, we announced a district restructuring with our store footprint divided into fifteen districts (previously, our store footprint was divided into five regions).   Each district contains six to ten stores, reporting to a district manager who is tasked with growing traffic and sales, as well as training store managers and associates to better serve our customers and succeed in today’s retail environment.  As of March 7, 2018, we have filled twelve of our fifteen district manager positions.
 
Customers
 
Our customer base is diverse, with individual retail customers as our largest customer group, representing approximately 60% of our 2017 sales.  The remaining portion of our 2017 sales were to our wholesale, manufacturer and institutional groups (including horse and tack shops, Western wear, crafters, upholsterers, cobblers, auto repair, education, hospitals, prisons and other large businesses that use our products as raw materials to produce goods for resale).  Generally, our retail customers provide a higher gross profit as compared to our wholesale and manufacturer groups.  
 
We serve our customers through various means including walk-in traffic, phone, mail order, and orders generated from our website.  We seek to minimize delivery time by locating our stores based on the location of customers.  A two-day maximum delivery time for phone, web and mail orders is our goal.  We also employ a distinctive marketing tactic in that we maintain an internally-developed target customer mailing list for use in our direct mail advertising campaigns.  We staff our stores with experienced managers whose compensation is tied to the operating profit of the store they manage.  Sales are generated by the selling efforts of the store personnel, combined with our marketing programs, including print, digital, direct mail, community events and trade shows.   
 
No single customer’s purchases represented more than 0.5% of our total sales in 2017.  Sales to our five largest customers represented 1.2%, 1.4% and 1.3% of consolidated sales in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  We do not believe the loss of any one of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our consolidated results.
 
 1
 
We offer an unconditional satisfaction guarantee to our customers.  Simply stated, we will accept product returns for any reason.  We believe this liberal policy promotes customer loyalty.  We offer credit terms to our non-retail customers upon receipt of a credit application and approval by our credit manager.  Generally, our open accounts are net 30 days.   
 
Merchandise
 
Our products are generally organized into 12 categories.  We carry a wide assortment of products including leather, lace, hand tools, kits, and craft supplies.  We operate a light manufacturing facility in Fort Worth, Texas whose processes generally involve cutting leather into various shapes and patterns using metal dies.  The factory produces approximately 20% of our products and also assembles and repackages products as needed.  Products manufactured in our factory are distributed through our stores under the TejasTM brand name.  We also distribute product under the Tandy LeatherTM, Eco-FloTM, CraftoolTM, and Dr. Jackson'sTM brands.  We develop new products through the ideas and referrals of customers and store personnel as well as the analysis of trends in the market.  
 
Sales by product category were as follows:
 

Product Category | 2017 Sales Mix | 2016 Sales Mix | 2015 Sales Mix
------------------------+----------------+----------------+---------------
Belts strips and straps | 4% | 4% | 4% 
Books, patterns, videos | 1% | 1% | 2% 
Buckles | 2% | 3% | 3% 
Conchos^ | 2% | 2% | 2% 
Craft supplies | 2% | 2% | 2% 
Dyes, finishes, glues | 7% | 7% | 7% 
Hand tools | 20% | 18% | 16% 
Hardware | 8% | 8% | 8% 
Kits | 6% | 6% | 6% 
Lace | 3% | 3% | 3% 
Leather | 40% | 41% | 42% 
Stamping tools | 5% | 5% | 5% 
 | 100% | 100% | 100% 

 ^A concho is a metal adornment attached to clothing, belts, saddles, etc., usually made into a pattern of some southwestern or geometric object.
 
Our Operating Segments
 
We operate in two segments, based on management responsibility and store location:  North America and International.  Prior to January 1, 2017, we operated in three segments:  Wholesale, Retail and International.  To better reflect how management analyzes the business and allocates resources, we combined Wholesale and Retail into North America effective January 1, 2017, while International remains the same. All prior year data discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10K has been restated to conform to the new reporting segment structure.  The new reporting segment structure did not result in any change to our consolidated financial position or results.
 
Information regarding net sales, gross profit, operating income, and total assets, attributable to each of our segments, is included within Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Note 12, Segment Information, of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
North America Segment
 
As of March 7, 2018, the North America segment consists of 115 stores, of which 105 are in the United States across 42 US states and 10 are in Canada across 7 provinces.  This segment had net sales of $78.6 million, $79.0 million and $80.5 million for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.
 
Our stores offer a broad selection of products combined with leathercraft expertise in a one-stop shop. Not only can customers purchase leather, related accessories and supplies necessary to complete his or her project from a single source, but many of our store associates are also leathercrafters themselves and can provide suggestions and advice on the customer’s projects.  The size and layout of the stores are planned to allow large quantities of product to be displayed in an easily accessible and visually appealing manner.  For example, leather is displayed by the pallet where the customer can see and touch it, assessing first-hand the numerous sizes, styles, and grades offered.  We also offer open workbenches where customers can try out tools and stamps.
 
From a physical standpoint, our stores range in size from 1,200 square feet to 22,000 square feet, with the average size of a store being approximately 4,000 square feet.  The types of premises utilized for our stores are generally light industrial offices or warehouse spaces or older strip shopping centers in proximity to major freeways or well-known crossroads; these types of locations typically offer lower rents compared to other more retail-oriented locations.   In 2016, we began opening new stores with an average footprint of 2,500 square feet in upgraded retail centers to seek to attract more retail customers.
 
Historically, we typically generate slightly more sales in the fourth quarter of each year due to the holiday shopping season (approximately 28-30% of annual sales), while the other three quarters remain fairly even at approximately 22-24 % of annual sales each quarter.
 
We plan to open two to four new stores in 2018, and we will evaluate the number of store relocations to seek to ensure that the benefits gained exceed the costs of relocation.
 
International Segment
 
The International segment consists of all stores located outside of North America.  As of March 7, 2018, we had four such stores, two located in the United Kingdom, one located in Australia, and one located in Spain.  This segment’s net sales were approximately $3.8 million, $3.9 million and $3.7 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  We intend to open more stores internationally, as the opportunities present themselves, but we have not determined a specific time schedule for future store openings and we do not expect to open any international stores in 2018.
 
The business concept for our International segment is similar to our North America strategy, although the stores average 7,000 square feet and are generally located in light industrial areas.  The customer base generally consists of individuals, wholesale distributors, equine-related shops, cobblers, dealers, and retailers dispersed geographically throughout Europe, Australia, and Asia.  No single customer’s purchases represented more than 4% of International Leathercraft’s sales in 2017.
 
For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.
 
 2
 
Operations
 
Starting March 1, 2018, in the majority of our stores, our hours of operation were extended to allow for later closing times to seek to better accommodate our customer’s schedules.  Our stores now open at 10:00 am Monday through Saturday, and close at 6:00 pm on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday and close at 8 pm on Tuesday and Thursday.  Previously, the hours of operation of our stores were 9:00 am to 6:00 pm Monday through Friday, and from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm on Saturdays.  Our stores are closed on Sunday, but this is currently under evaluation.  The stores maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition.
Distribution
 
Our stores receive the majority of their inventory from our central warehouse located in Fort Worth, Texas, although occasionally, merchandise is shipped directly from the vendor.  Inventory is typically shipped to the stores from our central warehouse once a week in order to seek to meet customer demand without sacrificing inventory turns.  Customer orders are typically filled as received, and we do not typically have backlogs.
 
We attempt to maintain the optimum number of items in our product line in order to seek to minimize out-of-stock situations against carrying costs involved with such an inventory level.  We generally maintain higher inventories of imported items to seek to ensure a continuous supply.  The number of products offered changes every year due to the introduction of new items and the discontinuance of others.  We carry approximately 2,600 items in the current lines of leather and leather-related merchandise.  All items are offered in all stores, unless prohibited by local regulations.
 
Competition
 
Most of our competition comes in the form of small, independently-owned businesses some of which are also our customers.  These small businesses generally carry only a limited line of leathercraft products.  We also compete with several national chains that also carry leathercraft products on a very small scale relative to their overall product line.  We also compete with internet-based retailers that provide customers the ability to search and compare products and prices without having to visit a physical store.  We compete on price, availability of merchandise, depth of our product line, and delivery time.  While there is competition with a number of our products, to our knowledge, there is no direct competition affecting our entire product line.  Further, to our knowledge,  our store chain is the only one in existence solely specializing in leathercraft.  As such, we believe that our large size relative to most competitors gives us the advantage of being able to purchase large volumes and stock a full range of products in our stores, as well as hire experienced store personnel that offer product expertise and project advice.
Suppliers
 
We purchase merchandise and raw materials from approximately 150 vendors dispersed throughout the United States and in approximately 20 foreign countries. In 2017, our 10 largest vendors accounted for approximately 72% of our inventory purchases.
 
Because leather is sold internationally, market conditions abroad are likely to affect the price of leather in the United States.  Aside from increasing purchases when we anticipate price increases (or possibly delaying purchases if we foresee price declines), we do not attempt to hedge our inventory costs.
 
Overall, we believe that our relationships with suppliers are strong and do not anticipate any material changes in these supplier relationships.  Due to the number of alternative sources of supply, we do not believe that the loss of any of these principal suppliers would have a material impact on our operations.
 
Compliance With Environmental Laws
 
Our compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we employed 656 people, 550 of whom were employed on a full-time basis.  We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.  Overall, we believe that relations with employees are good.
Intellectual Property
 
We own approximately 120 registered trademarks, including federal trade name registrations for "Tandy Leather Factory,” “The Leather Factory," "Tandy Leather Company," and “Tandy.”  We also own approximately 60 registered foreign trademarks worldwide.  We own approximately 600 registered copyrights in the United States covering more than 800 individual works relating to various products.  We also own several United States patents for specific belt buckles and leather-working equipment.  These rights are valuable assets, and we defend them as necessary.
Foreign Sales
 
Information regarding our revenues from the United States and abroad and our long-lived assets are found in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information.  For a description of some of the risks attendant to our foreign operations, see Item 1.A “Risk Factors”.
 
Available Information
 
We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  These reports include our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these filings.  The public may read any of these filings at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC  20549 on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.  In addition, the public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  Further, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information concerning us.  You can connect to this site at www.sec.gov.
 
Our corporate website is located at www.tandyleather.com.  We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.  Our SEC filings can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website through the "SEC Filings" link.  In addition, certain other corporate governance documents are available on our website through the "Corporate Governance" link.
 
 3
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers as of March 7, 2018:
 

Name and Age | Position | Served as Executive Officer Since
----------------------+---------------------------------------+----------------------------------
Shannon L. Greene, 52 | Chief Executive Officer | 2000 
Mark J. Angus, 57 | President | 2008 
Tina L. Castillo, 48 | Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer | 2017 
William M. Warren, 74 | Secretary and Corporate Counsel | 1993 

Shannon L. Greene has served as Chief Executive Officer since February 2016 and a director since January 2001; Prior to her current role, Ms. Greene served as our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from May 2000 – February 2017.  Ms. Greene, a certified public accountant, also serves on our 401(k) Plan committee.
Mark J. Angus has served as President since February 2016 and a director since June 2009; previously, Mr. Angus served as our Senior Vice President from June 2008 – February 2016 and as Vice President of Merchandising from January 1993 – June 2008.
Tina Castillo has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since February 2017; previously, Ms. Castillo served as Controller from February 2016 to January 2017.  Ms. Castillo has served as Chief Financial Officer for several other public and private companies since 2009 and started her career at Ernst & Young in 1994.  Ms. Castillo, a certified public accountant, also serves on our 401(k) Plan committee.
William M. Warren has served as Secretary and General Counsel since 1993.  Since 1979, Mr. Warren has been President and Director of Loe, Warren, Rosenfield, Kaitcer, Hibbs, Windsor & Lawrence, P.C., a law firm located in Fort Worth, Texas.
 
All officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors to serve for the ensuing year.
 
