Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1.  Business
General
 
Capstone Companies, Inc. is a public holding company organized under the laws of the State of Florida.  The Company is engaged in the business of developing, marketing and selling consumer home LED lighting products through national and regional retailers in North America and in certain overseas markets. The primary operating subsidiary is Capstone Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation located in the principal executive offices of the Company ("CAPI"). Capstone International Hong Kong, Ltd., or "CIHK", was established to expand the Company's product development, engineering and factory resource capabilities in Hong Kong. Capstone's products are targeted for applications such as home indoor and outdoor lighting. The lighting portfolio consists of stylish, innovative and easy to use consumer LED lighting products. The Company's products are sold under CAPI brand name, Capstone Lighting®, as well as under a nationally recognized licensed brand-named Hoover® Home LED. LEDs are now mainstream in consumer lighting products, and, as such, the Company believes that the component and production costs of LED lighting products will continue to lower due to technological and production developments, which should allow a smaller innovative company like ourselves to capitalize on products utilizing LED.  The Company's focus is the integration of LED into most commonly used lighting products in today's home. We continue to make key investments to ensure that we provide quality LED lighting products. The Company understands and strives to couple well made products with superior customer service.  Customer service is a vital part of consumer loyalty.  Capstone believes that it is positioned well to participate in these expanded product categories designed to fuel the Company's future growth.
 
The Company seeks to deliver strong, consistent business results and increasing shareholder returns by providing innovative products on a global basis that make consumer's lives simpler and safer while delivering revenue growth to the Company's retail partners.
 
The Company oversees and controls the manufacturing of its products, which are currently made in China by OEM contract manufacturers, through three wholly-owned operating subsidiaries: CAPI, CIHK and CLTL.  Capstone believes it has commercially favorable payment terms with its OEM contract manufacturers which terms support the Company's growth.  The Company's direct import business model requires that shipments meet minimum order quantity or "MOQ" full container loads from its factories directly to retail customers shipping brokers.   This business model avoids pitfalls resulting from slow moving and obsolete product inventories.  The Company's products are built to fill backlog orders and are typically not warehoused for domestic replenishment programming.  CIHK continually evaluates its contract manufacturers' ability to meet the Company's growing needs.  Additionally, all manufacturers must meet rigorous compliance, security and equipment evaluation audits to ensure competitive pricing for the highest quality products.  The Company continues to explore alternative manufacturing sources in China and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim as part of its ongoing supply chain strategic planning.
 
History of Our Business
 
We were incorporated on September 18, 1986 as a Delaware corporation. Our initial public offering under the Securities Act was conducted in 1987.  We started as a blank check company.  From 1986 until the 2006 acquisition of CAPI, we experienced several changes in management, corporate name, and primary business lines, as well as reincorporation from Delaware to Colorado and then from Colorado to Florida in 2004.
 
On September 13, 2006, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Capstone Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Capstone").  Capstone was incorporated in Florida on May 15, 1996 and is engaged primarily in the business of wholesaling low technology consumer products to distributors and retailers in the United States.  Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Capstone's Common Stock, and recorded goodwill of $1,936,020.
 
  

5
 
 

On April 13, 2012, the Company established a wholly owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, named Capstone International Hong Kong Ltd ("CIHK") which provides support services such as engineering, new product development, product sourcing, factory certification and compliance, product price negotiating, product testing and quality control and ocean freight logistics for the Company's other subsidiaries. CIHK is also engaged in selling the Company's products internationally.
 
The Company entered the LED consumer market eight years ago. At that time, it was clear to management that there was a significant opportunity for an innovative low-cost LED product supplier as the lighting industry was on its transition path from traditional lighting technologies to LED.
 
Capstone was an early integrator in the introduction of lower cost LED lighting products that have distinctive aspects to create greater appeal to consumers.  The Company's product lines consisted of decorative lighting, outdoor fixtures, lighting with built-in power failure technology and safety and security.  The power failure lighting and security products were initially sold under its wholly – owned subsidiary Capstone Industries' brand name through 2015.  
 
Commencing in 2014, Capstone explored and researched branding opportunities that would allow the Company to differentiate from its own Capstone Lighting® brand.  The underlying strategy enabled Capstone to effectively provide product to competing retailers within the same channel.
 
Through product differentiation and a visibly recognized brand launched in 2015, Hoover® Home LED became a Capstone success story.  The Company secured the North America trademark license for the Hoover® brand for LED lighting products.  The Hoover® name is a 100-year-old household iconic brand name. Hoover® is a registered trademark of Techtronic Floor Care Technology Limited. The overall licensed brand revenue has increased significantly in 2017 with the launch of 4 new products under the Hoover® Home LED brand and 1 new product under the Duracell® brand.
 
In the latter part of 2014, the Company concluded that conventional retail was going to undergo significant change in its LED product and vendor selections resulting from swift retail pricing adjustments.  Early LED light bulbs, that were deemed early technologies and were seen by the Company as too expensive and no longer appropriate for the market.  The early LED products did not look like light bulbs and were not marketed effectively in the opinion of the Company. As such, buying an LED light bulb was potentially confusing to the consumer.  Over the course of the next year, retail prices for early LED products plummeted and negatively impacted the supply chain.  Capstone forecasted this outcome and determined to focus its primary marketing approach towards the warehouse club channel where low retail mark-ups circumvented this market condition.  The Company was timely in this strategic market entry and benefited from the limited number of vendors competing in this arena.  The Company concluded that larger LED bulb suppliers were concerned with protecting retail price positions and they could not, as such, effectively market their brands in both conventional retail channels and warehouse club channels.
 
Over the course of the next three years, Capstone positioned itself in the warehouse club channel and posted successive revenue growth while delivering strong gross margins. As discussed below under "Products and Customers,".  The Company is currently expanding its distribution into international home improvement centers that accept Capstone's direct import model.  The Company is distributing Capstone Lighting, Hoover® Home LED and will offer private label programming to international accounts where the Company's brands are less relevant to consumer choice.
 
The Company's operations consist of one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Lighting Products.
 
  

6
 
 

LED Lighting Industry Trends
 
High Energy Costs Drive LED Adoption:
 
As a result of rising electricity prices and environmental concerns (as shown by U.S. Energy Information Administration studies), particularly within dense urban areas already impacted by high energy costs, consumers seek new technologies to reduce energy consumption. LEDs are 60% more efficient than fluorescent lighting and represent significant savings for consumers.  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency predicts widespread consumer use of LED lighting by 2020, especially if public utility programs encouraging consumer use of LED lighting continues.
Technological Maturity:
 
The technological advancement of LED lighting has surpassed traditional lighting performance in terms of brightness, efficiency, lamp life, safety, maintenance reduction and color -rendering. This maturity continues to drive growing market adoption. According to the U.S. Department of Energy study, LED market share is expected to account for $72 billion of the $105 billion general in the global lighting market by 2020.
Cost Comparison:
 
Market forces, including competitive pressure, greater manufacturing efficiencies and increased technology adoption among consumers, continues to significantly drive down LED prices. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2017 report shows that LED lighting uses 70-90% less energy than traditional incandescent lighting, lasts 15 times longer and has significant savings in energy costs.   The increasing efficiencies and savings of LED lighting as well as public utility programs to encourage use of LED lighting 
 has led to the global market experiencing increased LED adoption.
 
Superior Efficiency:
 
Since the introduction of the first visible LED in the 1960s, the technology has offered an increasingly wide variety of colored lighting, beginning with red and expanding to green, yellow and orange. In the mid-1990's, LEDs became capable of emitting blue light. With the advent of the blue LEDs combined with phosphor technology, LEDs made another technological advancement by emitting white LEDs. This breakthrough enabled LEDs, through its full color spectrum output capabilities, to compete with preferred color temperatures achieved by traditional lighting solutions.
 
In an effort to lower energy consumption, lighting developers are focused on increasing the "lumens per watt". The more lumens per watt, the more energy efficient the product is. Today's LEDs are significantly more efficient than the typical fluorescent light sources.
 
Social Responsibility:
 
LED lighting solutions provide a significant opportunity for consumers to meet environmental goals. LEDs do not contain mercury, unlike fluorescent lighting, which can be harmful to the environment, do not emit ultraviolet radiation, typically do not contain glass, and are 100% recyclable.
Our Growth Strategy
 
The global lighting market has undergone a transition driven by rapid advancements in the performance, efficiency and cost of energy-efficient LED lighting products.  LED lighting products offer numerous advantages for the user which are driving demand (improved light quality, durability, longer life, cooler temperatures, lower cost of operation). As the cost of LEDs decreases while performance improves combined with increased consumer education, we expect the LED lighting technology to continue to expand its share of the general illumination market. These advantages in addition to increased regulatory requirements banning inefficient lights   are expected to continue to accelerate the adoption of energy efficient LED technologies and lighting products.
 
  

7
 
 

Target Markets:  Our objective is to become recognized as a leading-edge LED lighting company, "Rapidly Imbedding Technologies into Consumer Products. "
 
 
· | As the LED lighting market continues to build momentum, becoming a major provider of LED lighting in the market place requires expanding relationships with the buying teams for national retailers. We plan to continue to strengthen those relationships and expand into other departments or indeed other channels of distribution through those relationships.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | We plan to continue to refine and improve our lighting products portfolio and expand into another product segments through the efforts our research and development team.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | By introducing new products and expanding sales of existing products and continuing to increase our sales volumes, we believe that we can continue to improve operational efficiency by further reducing cost of materials, components and manufacturing costs, allowing us to maintain very competitive price points in the market place.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Perceived or Essential Strengths
 
Capstone believes that the following competitive strengths have and will continue to serve as a foundation for its business strategy:
 
In North America, the Company is highly recognized in several LED product niches.  Capstone believes that the specialized nature of its existing niche categories, and the market share that it has provided has allowed us to introduce and launch its expanded LED Home Lighting programs.
 
The Company believes its multiple brand strategy is important in maintaining competitiveness in the marketplace. Capstone Lighting®, Hoover® Home LED and Duracell® have proven successful in meeting expectations at the point of sale.
 
Capstone's core executive team has been working together for over three decades and has successfully built and managed other consumer product companies.  Operating Management's experience in hardline product manufacturing and marketing prepared the Company for its entry into the LED market.
 
From a market perspective, Capstone's branding strategy is focused on establishing multiple trusted brands allowing for a broader reach into various channels.  Capstone Lighting® (2008), Hoover® Home LED (2015) and Duracell® has contributed to expanding the Company's retail position.  All brands are currently available in the marketplace.
 
 Product Quality: We offer quality products allowing consumers to maximize the benefits of adopting LED products. We design, manufacture and sell quality and reliable products across all of our brands with functional advantages that are cost competitive. We achieve this, in part, through a combination of sourcing quality LEDs, stringent manufacturing quality control and conducting rigorous third-party product testing. To deliver cost-competitive products, we are investing in product advancements, leveraging purchasing volume, capitalizing on strategic vendor relationships and migrating high-volume products to our proprietary manufacturing process.
 
The Company's product characteristics are supposed to satisfy the following standards:
 
 
· | Designed to make everyday tasks or usage simpler and more enjoyable for consumers;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | While continuing to focus on increased profit margins, the products must be affordable to win at the point of sale and deliver increased revenues for retail partners;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | The products must represent significant value when compared with items produced or marketed by competitive consumer product companies; and
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Wherever feasible, the products must be unique to the market whether this be accomplished though design techniques, added functionality or some proprietary innovation.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


  

8
 
 

Authoritative Knowledge: We invest in employees and manufacturers with extensive knowledge, understanding and experience of lighting technology, and regulatory environments that enables us to continue to provide superior quality products and service for our customers.  Our management team has demonstrated its ability to drive organic growth.
 
With respect to the Company's goal of sustained profitability, the challenge has been and remains to achieve greater profit margins from our product lines by either innovative products that induce consumers to pay a higher purchase price or increased efficiencies in producing and selling products that sustain attractive pricing.  This challenge confronts many consumer product companies. Capstone believes that appropriate use of OEM capabilities in innovation and production coupled with design that appeals to consumers are critical factors in meeting this challenge, especially for a smaller or niche competitor.
 
Due to the extensive, modern manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities with the Company's OEM contract manufacturers, and the lower unit costs in China, Capstone believes that it is more economical and efficient to continue to manufacture certain products in China and have them shipped to the United States rather than to have such products produced in North America.  While this resource is available to and used by large numbers of U.S. companies, including our competitors, the Company believes this Chinese manufacturing resource gives the Company the level of innovation, production cost and quality that allows Capstone to be competitive with larger competitors in the United States.  However, as design technologies can influence the degree of hand labor in building its future products, the Company expects the advantages it has realized by manufacturing solely in China to be challenged.  The Company periodically evaluates alternative OEM manufacturing within and outside the Pacific Rim.
 
The Company has expanded CIHK's operations in Hong Kong, with personnel experienced in engineering and design, product development and testing, product sourcing, international logistics and quality control.  These associates work with our OEM factories to develop and prototype new product concepts and to ensure products meet consumer product regulations and rigorous quality control standards.  All products are tested before and during production by Company personnel.  This team also provides extensive product development, quality control and logistics support to our factory partners to ensure on time shipments.  In anticipation of possible Company growth, we have continued our investment in CIHK in an effort to ensure that the overseas factory performance meets our stringent operational tolerances to maintain our competitiveness and operational excellence.
 
Perceived Weaknesses
 
The Company does not have its own established, extensive e-commerce operation for marketing and selling products.  We rely on e-commerce or Internet marketing and sales by retailers or online companies like Amazon.com.  As consumers move increasingly to buying consumer goods online or through e-commerce, as witnessed by the growth of online companies like Amazon.com, the Company may have to devote capital and resources to developing its own e-commerce operation for its products to maintain or grow sales of products.   If an extensive, Company operated e-commerce operation is developed, it may fail to maintain or grow product sales.  The cost of any Company operated e-commerce operation may also divert capital from the brick-and-mortar retail products sales operations.
 
The Company does not have the financial, marketing and technological depth of some of its larger competitors in the LED consumer lighting industry.  The greater resources of competitors pose an ongoing threat of predatory pricing and marketing designed to undermine our competitiveness or to preclude entry into new geographical markets.  We believe the strength of our OEM contract manufacturing, the quality of our products and the power of online and social media in consumer decisions compensate to some extent for any inability to match larger competitors' advantages in resources.
 
Unexpected changes in lighting technology pose a threat to every company in the LED consumer industry.
 
  

9
 
 

Products and Customers
 
The Company has expanded its product positioning through the introduction of more indoor and outdoor lighting programs under the "Capstone Lighting®", Hoover® Home LED and Duracell® brands and  include the following products that are reported under one segment : Lighting Products:
 
 
· | Wireless Remote-Controlled LED Accent Lights
--+---------------------------------------------


· | LED Under Cabinet Lights
--+-------------------------


· | LED Gooseneck Lantern
--+----------------------


· | LED Solar Patio Lights
--+-----------------------


· | LED Motion Sensor Lights
--+-------------------------


· | LED Wall Utility Lights
--+------------------------


· | CPC Power Failure Bulbs
--+------------------------


· | Wireless Remote-Control Outlets
--+--------------------------------



These product offerings encompass solutions for various residential lighting applications for interior and outdoor use.
 
Such product expansion involves the inherent risk of increased operating and marketing costs without a corresponding increase in operational revenues and profits.
 
The Company has established product distribution relationships with numerous leading international, national and regional retailers, including but not limited to: Amazon, Bunnings, Costco Wholesale, Home Depot, Sam's Club, The Container Store and Wal-Mart. These distribution channels may sell the Company's products through the internet as well as through retail storefronts and catalogs/mail order.  The Company believes it has developed the scale, manufacturing efficiencies, and design expertise that serves as the foundation for aggressive pursuit of niche product opportunities in our largest consumer markets and international market.  While Capstone has traditionally generated the majority of its sales in the domestic U.S. market, urbanization, rising family incomes and increased living standards abroad have spurred a perceived demand for small consumer appliances internationally. To capture this market opportunity, the Company has expanded its international sales by leveraging relationships with our existing global retailers and by strengthening our international product offerings.  CIHK assists the Company in placing more products into foreign market channels as well.  The Company introduced Capstone brands to markets outside the U.S., including Australia, France, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom.  This continues to be a promising distribution channel with international sales for the year ended December 31, 2017, of $1.8 million or 5% of net revenue compared to $2.4 million or 8% of net revenue for the same period in 2016. Based on Capstone's experience in the industry, the Company's Chinese contract manufacturing resources and focus on well designed, practical products, Capstone believes the Company is well positioned to become a leading manufacturer in the growing LED home lighting and security lighting segments.  The Company's efforts to achieve such a goal are ongoing.  Capstone believes it will maintain its revenue growth because of the ability to deliver unique products on time, the quality reputation of its products, business relationships with Capstone's retailers and the aggressive product expansion strategies currently in place.  Such continued progress depends on a number of assumptions and factors, including ones mentioned in "Risk Factors" below.  Critical to growth are economic conditions in the markets that foster greater consumer spending as well as success in the Company's initiatives to distinguish its brands from competitors by design, quality, and scope of functions and new technology or features.  The Company's ability to fund the pursuit of our goals remains a constant, significant factor.
 
  

10
 
 

With the Company's branded lighting categories, Capstone has a comprehensive product offering for its niche in the industry.  The Company believes that it will provide retailers with a broad and diversified portfolio of consumer products across numerous product categories, which should add diversity to the Company's revenues and cash flows sources.  Within the selection of products offered, Capstone seeks to service the needs of a wide range of consumers by providing products to satisfy their different interests, preferences and budgets.  The Company believes in its ability to serve retailers with a broad array of branded products and quickly introduce new products to continue to allow Capstone to further penetrate its existing customer bases, while also attracting new customers. The Company's primary, perceived challenge is creating sustained consumer demand for its products in a growing number of markets and attaining sustained profitability, which challenge is complicated by the cost of new product development and costs of penetrating new markets.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
We continue to make investments to expand our sales, marketing, technical applications support and distribution capabilities to sell our lighting products. We market and sell our LED products through our internal sales team and agency networks. Generally, our agencies are recruited, trained and monitored by us directly. We maintain a firm policy on the use of our name for branding our LED lighting products. The Company's products are marketed primarily through a direct independent sales force.  The sales force markets the Company's products through numerous retail locations worldwide, including larger retail warehouse clubs, hardware centers and e-commerce websites.  The Company actively promotes its products to retailers and distributors at North American trade shows but relies on the retail sales channels to advertise its products directly to the end consumer.  All sales activities at major account levels involve direct executive management participation.
 
In order for continued sales growth in the retail market, the Company is focused on expanding its market share at existing accounts by expanding its portfolio of both branded and private label LED lighting products. The Company will also be targeting direct to retail clients through CIHK for products that fall outside Capstone's branded categories but are innovative and preferably exclusive to CIHK.  This should allow for quicker revenue expansion as time consuming product and brand development efforts are the responsibility of the retailer.
 
Capstone depends on Amazon.com and other retail e-commerce sites as they are the most cost efficient and effective approach for the Company.  We maintain a Facebook1 website at https://www.facebook.com/powerfailuresolutions/ and our sales staff may use Social Media from time to time to promote our products and brands.  We have not developed a specific Social Media campaign based on third party sponsors or promoters.
 
Competitive Conditions
 
The consumer LED products and small electronics businesses are highly competitive and rapidly evolving markets, both in the United States and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.  Competition is influenced by brand perceptions, product performance and value perception, customer service and price.  The Company's principal lighting competitors in the U.S. are Energizer, Feit Electric and Jasco (GE).  The Company believes private-label sales by large retailers has some impact on the market in some parts of the world as many national retailers such as Costco, Home Depot, Target and Wal-Mart offer lighting as part of their private branded product lines.  Many of the Company's competitors have greater resources and capabilities, including greater brand recognition, research and development budgets and broader geographical market reach.  Competitors with greater resources could undermine Capstone's expansion efforts by marketing campaigns targeting its expansion efforts or price competition.  Moreover, if one or more of the Company's competitors were to merge, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our customer distribution channel.
 

1 Facebook is a registered trademark of Facebook, Inc.
   

11
 
 

With trends and technology continually changing, Capstone will continue to invest and rapidly develop new products that are competitively priced with consumer centric features and benefits easily articulated to influence point of sale decision making.  Success in the markets we serve depends upon product innovation, pricing, retailer support, responsiveness, and cost management.  The Company continues to invest in developing the technologies and design critical to competing in our markets.  Our ability to invest is limited by operational cash flow and funding from third parties, including members of management and the Board of Directors.
 
Research, Product Development, and Manufacturing Activities
 
The Company's research and development department based in Hong Kong designs and engineers many of the Company's products, with collaboration from its third-party manufacturing partners.  We outsource the manufacture and assembly of our products to a number of contract manufacturers overseas. Their focus is to introduce product with technology, increasing functionality, enhanced quality, efficient manufacturing processes and cost reductions.  CIHK also establishes strict engineering specifications and product testing protocols for the Company's contract manufacturers' factories and ensure the factories adhere to all Chinese Labor and Social Compliance Laws.  Under the current political regime in China, sudden and unexpected changes in such laws are possible and could impact the Company's business or financial performance by increasing the cost or ease of conducting business.
 
These contract manufacturers purchase components that we specify and provide the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. We leverage the strength of the contract manufacturers and allocate the manufacturing of specific products to the contract manufacturer best suited to the task. Quality control and lot testing is conducted at the contract manufacturers facility and also at 3rd party testing laboratories overseas.
 
Capstone's research and development team ensures its proprietary manufacturing expertise by maintaining control over all outsourced production and critical production molds.  In order to ensure the quality and consistency of the Company's products manufactured in China, Capstone uses globally recognized certified testing laboratories such as United Laboratories (UL) or Intertek (ETL) to ensure all products are designed and tested to adhere to each country's individual regulatory standards.  The Company also employs quality control inspectors who examine and test products to Capstone's specification(s) before shipments are released.  CIHK office capabilities have now been expanded to include product development, project management, sourcing management, supply chain logistics, factory compliance auditing, and quality enforcement for all supplier factories located in Hong Kong and mainland China.
 
To successfully implement Capstone's business strategy, the Company must continually improve its current products and develop new product segments with innovative imbedded technologies to meet consumer's growing expectations.
 
Capstone will continue to invest in this area as the Company expands the number of products being developed and as it moves into more technical and innovative product categories.  These costs are expensed when incurred and are included in the operating expenses.
 
Raw Materials
 
The principal raw materials used by Capstone are sourced in China, as the Company orders product exclusively through contract manufacturers in the region. These contract manufacturers purchase components based on the Company's specifications and provide the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture the Company's products.  Capstone allocates the production of specific products to the contract manufacturer the Company believes is more experienced to produce the specific product.   In order to ensure the consistent quality of Capstone's products, quality control procedures have been incorporated at each stage of the manufacturing process, ranging from the inspection of raw materials through production and delivery to the customer.  These procedures are additional to the manufacturers' internal quality control procedures and performed by Company staff.
 
  

12
 
 

 
· | Raw Materials – Components and supplies are subject to sample inspections upon arrival at the contract manufacturer, to ensure the correct specified components are being used in production.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Work in Process – Our quality control team conducts quality control tests at different points during the product stages of our manufacturing process to ensure that quality integrity is maintained.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Finished Goods – Our team performs tests on finished and packaged products to assess product safety, integrity and package compliance.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Raw materials used in manufacturing include plastic resin, copper, led bulbs, batteries, and corrugated paper. Prices of materials have remained lower and competitive in the last year as a result of lower oil prices and the strengthening U.S. dollar. CAPC believes that adequate supplies of raw materials required for its operations are available at the present time.  CAPC, cannot predict the future availability or prices of such materials.  These raw materials are generally available from a number of different sources, and the prices of those raw materials are susceptible to currency fluctuations and price fluctuations due to transportation, government regulations, price controls, economic climate, or other unforeseen circumstances.  In the past, CAPC has not experienced any significant interruption in availability of raw materials.  We believe we have extensive experience in manufacturing and have taken positions to assure supply and to protect margins on anticipated sales volume.  CIHK is responsible for developing and sourcing finished products from Asia in order to grow and diversify our product portfolio.  Quality testing for these products is performed both by CIHK and by our globally recognized third party quality testing laboratories.
 
Section 1502 of Title XV of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires SEC-reporting companies to disclose annually whether any conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product.  Based on our inquiries to our manufacturers, we do not believe as of the date of such inquiries that any conflict minerals are used in making our products.
 
Distribution and Fulfillment
 
Since January 2015, the Company has transferred its U.S. domestic warehousing and distribution needs to a third-party warehousing facility situated in Anaheim, California.  The warehouse operator provides full inventory storage, packaging and logistics services including direct to store and direct to consumer shipping capabilities that electronically interface to our existing operations software.  The warehouse operator provides full ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), Inventory Control and Warehouse Management Systems.  These fulfillment services can be expanded to the east coast in Charleston, South Carolina, if the Company needed to establish an east coast distribution point.  This relationship, if required, will allow us to fully expand our U.S. distribution capabilities and services.
Royalties
 
We have, from time to time, entered into agreements whereby we have agreed to pay royalties for the use of nationally recognized licensed brands on Company product offerings. Royalty expense incurred under such agreements is expensed at the time of shipment.
 
Royalty expenses related to such agreements for the fiscal years 2017 and 2016 were $1,282,210 and $496,166 respectively.  This expense increase resulted from increased sales of the Hoover® Home LED branded products and increased sales resulting from the addition in 2017 of the Duracell® brand to a specific product.
 
Seasonality
 
Sales for household products and electronics are seasonally influenced. Certain gift products cause consumers to increase purchases during key holiday winter season of the fourth quarter, which requires increases in retailer inventories during the third quarter. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes can create conditions that drive increased needs for portable power and power failure light sales. Historically, the LED products had seasonally lower sales during the first quarter due to the Chinese New Year holiday as factories are closed and shipments are halted during this period.
 
  

13
 
 

Intellectual Property
 
CAPC subsidiary, CAPI, owns a number of U.S. trademarks and patents which CAPC considers of substantial importance and which are used individually or in conjunction with other CAPC trademarks and patents.  These include the following trademarks: Exclusive license and sub-license to Power Failure Technology; Capstone Power Control, Timely Reader, Pathway Lights, and 10 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 5 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 3 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 3 LED Slim Line Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, LED Induction Charged Headlight.  We also have a number of patents pending; Puck Light (cookie), Puck Light Base, Multi-Color Puck Lights, LED Dual Mode Solar Light, Integrated Light Bulb (Coach Light), LED Gooseneck Lantern, Spot Lights, Security Motion Activated Lights, Under Cabinet Lighting and Bathroom Vanity Light.  CAPC periodically prepares patent and trademark applications for filing in the United States and China.  CAPC will also pursue foreign patent protection in foreign countries if deemed necessary.  CAPC's ability to compete effectively in the power failure, portable lighting, and LED Home Lighting categories depends in part, on its ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements, licensing, and cross-licensing agreements.  CAPC owns a number of patents, trademarks, trademark and patent applications and other technology which CAPC believes are significant to its business. These intellectual property rights relate primarily to lighting device improvements and manufacturing processes.
 
While the Company may license third party technologies for its products, or may rely on other companies for design, engineering and testing, the Company believes that its oversight of design and function of its products and its marketing capabilities are significant factors in the ability of the Company to sell its products.
 
Value of Patents. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. The validity and breadth of claims in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain.
 
Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. We cannot assure shareholders that our competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us.  We will assess any loss of these rights and determine whether to litigate to protect our intellectual property rights on a case by case basis.
 
We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent, and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights.  We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted.  There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights from others to support new product introductions.  There can be no assurance that we
 can acquire licenses under patents belonging to others for technology potentially useful or necessary to us and there can be no assurance that such licenses will be available to us, if at all, on terms acceptable to us.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent issued to or licensed by us will not be infringed or circumvented by others or will not be successfully challenged by others in lawsuits.  We do not have a reserve for litigation costs associated with intellectual property matters.  The cost of litigating intellectual property rights claims may be beyond our financial ability to fund.
 
As is customary in the retail industry, many of our customer agreements requires us to indemnify our customers for third -party intellectual property infringement claims. Such claims could harm our relationships with customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. With respect to any intellectual property rights claims against us or our customers, we may be required to cease manufacture of the infringing product, pay damages and expend significant Company resources to defend against the claim and or seek a license.
 
  

14
 
 

Information Technology
 
The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems to manage our daily operations, communicate with our customers and maintain our financial and accounting records. In the normal course of business, we receive information regarding customers, associates, and vendors.  Since we do not collect significant amounts of valuable personal data or sensitive business data from others, our internal computer systems are under a light to moderate level of risk from hackers or other individuals with malicious intent to gain unauthorized access to our computer systems. Cyberattacks are growing in number and sophistication and are an ongoing threat to business computer systems, which are used to operate the business on a day to day basis. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, or other events. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain our information or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our systems or an event resulting in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or degradation of services provided by critical business systems, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business operations, sales, reputation with current and potential customers, associates or vendors,  results of operations, product development and make us unable or limit our ability to respond to customers' demands. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:

· | hurricanes, fire, flood and other natural disasters;
--+-----------------------------------------------------


· | power outages
--+--------------


· | internet, telecommunications or data network failure.
--+------------------------------------------------------

Environmental Regulations
 
We believe that the Company is in compliance with environmental protection regulations and will not have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we employed 7 employees in our U.S. office and 7 employees in our Hong Kong operation.  We consider our relations with our employees to be good with none of our employees being subject to collective bargaining agreements.  We have no part-time workers.
 
The following table sets forth the number of employees by function:
 

Employee Function | Number of Employees
------------------------------------------------------+--------------------
Executive | 3 
Sales/Customer Service/Distribution | 4 
Research & Development/Technology/Product Development | 4 
Administrative | 3 
TOTAL | 14 

Corporate Information
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 350 Jim Moran Blvd., Suite #120, Deerfield Beach, Florida, USA 33442. Our telephone number is (954) 570-8889 and our website is located at www.capstonecompaniesinc.com. Our U.S. subsidiaries operate out of our principal executive offices.
 
We file our financial information and other materials required under the Exchange Act electronically with the SEC.  These materials can be accessed electronically via the Internet at www.sec.gov.  Such materials and other information about the Company are also available through our corporate website.
 
  

15
 
 

Government Regulation
 
CAPC's operations are subject to regulation by federal and state securities authorities as well as various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations governing a consumer products company and a for-profit business.  We are not subject to any U.S. federal, state or local regulation that poses, in our opinion, any special or unusual burden or obstacle to conducting our business and financial affairs.  Our main concern in terms of government regulation is the changing regulatory environment in China and its impact on our ability to access our consumer product manufacturing sources and obtain our consumer products.  While the general trend in China has to be conducive to trade and commerce, China is a still a single-party nation-state in which the central government has the power to dramatically and immediately change its trade and commercial policies and laws.  Political or military conflict between the United States and China, who are rivals for power and influence in Asia and to an increasing extent all along the Pacific Rim as well as being diametrically opposed to one another over the status of Taiwan, could provoke a change in Chinese trade or commercial law that makes it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain consumer products.  Such a development would have a serious impact on our ability to compete in the United States in the niche consumer product market.
 
CIHK is subject to the laws of Hong Kong SAR.  In light of the specific operational role of CHK in our company, we do not believe that such regulation poses a significant risk factor in terms of the business and financial condition of the Company.
 
Working Capital Requirements and Financing
 
In order to more effectively support retailers in the U.S. domestic markets, so that retailers can quickly replenish their stock and reduce the impact of lost sales as a result of stock outages, the Company, as needed, strategically increases its inventory levels held in its leased Anaheim, California warehouse. Combined with investment in new product molds, product testing and outside certifications, package design work, and further expansion of its design and engineering capabilities in CIHK, the Company may require additional working capital to fund these strategic projects.
 
The Company's ability to maintain sufficient working capital is highly dependent upon achieving expected operating results.  Failure to achieve expected operating results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's working capital, ability to obtain financing, and its operations in the future.  However, achieving expected results as accomplished in 2017 and 2016, has increased working capital, provided the Company with liquidity and has allowed for the repayment of all outstanding bank notes and old related party loans.
 
Continued product expansion are critical requirements to ensure the Company's continued revenue growth.  Such projects are never held back because of funding shortfalls.  The Company budgets for such projects and if necessary certain members of the Company's senior management and Board of Directors have supplemented the cash flow needs as required through short term loans.
 
On September 8, 2010, in order to support working capital needs, Capstone secured a Financing Agreement from Sterling Capital Funding (now called Sterling National Bank), located in New York, whereby Capstone receives funds for assigned retailer shipments. The assignments provide funding for an amount up to 85% of net invoices submitted.  There is a base management fee equal to .45% of the gross invoice amount. The interest rate of the loan advance is .25% above Sterling National Bank's Base Rate which at the time of closing was 5%.
 
  

16
 
 

As of December 31, 2017, the base management fee is now equal to .30% and the interest rate on the loan was 6.50%. The amounts borrowed under this agreement are due on demand and secured by a right to set-off on or against any of the following (collectively as "Collateral"): all accounts including those at risk, all reserves, instruments, documents, notes, bills and chattel paper, letter of credit rights, commercial tort claims, proceeds of insurance, other forms of obligations owing to Sterling National Bank,  bank and other deposit accounts whether or not reposed with affiliates, general intangibles (including without limitation all tax refunds, contract rights, trade names, trademarks, trade secrets, customer lists, software and all other licenses, rights, privileges and franchises), all balances, sums and other property at any time to our credit or in Sterling National Bank's possession or in the possession of any Sterling Affiliates, together with all merchandise, the sale of which resulted in the creation of accounts receivable and in all such merchandise that may be returned by customers and all books and records relating to any of the foregoing, including the cash and non-cash proceeds of all of the foregoing.
 
The Sterling National Bank credit facility over the years has been a major contributing factor that has allowed the Company to increase its revenue and expand its account receivables.
 
As of both December 31, 2017 and 2016, the balance due to Sterling National Bank was $0.
 
As of December 31, 2017, the maximum amount that can be borrowed and available on this credit line is $7,000,000.
 
The Company's liquidity and cash requirements are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below.
 
