Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to the "Company", "Lands' End", "we", "us", "our" and similar terms refer to Lands' End, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday preceding the Saturday on or closest to January 31. Other terms commonly used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are defined as follows:
•ABL Facilities - Collectively the Prior ABL Facility and the Current ABL Facility
•Current ABL Facility - Asset-based senior secured credit agreement, dated as of November 16, 2017, with Wells Fargo, N.A. and certain other lenders
•Debt Facilities - Collectively, the ABL Facilities and the Term Loan Facility
•ERP - enterprise resource planning software solutions
•ESL - ESL Investments, Inc. and its investment affiliates, including Edward S. Lampert
•Fiscal 2019 - The 52 weeks ended January 31, 2020
•Fiscal 2018 - The Company's next fiscal year representing the 52 weeks ending February 1, 2019
•Fiscal 2017 - The 53 weeks ended February 2, 2018
•Fiscal 2016 - The 52 weeks ended January 27, 2017
•Fiscal 2015 - The 52 weeks ended January 29, 2016
•Fiscal 2014 - The 52 weeks ended January 30, 2015
•Fiscal 2013 - The 52 weeks ended January 31, 2014
•GAAP - Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
•Prior ABL Facility - Asset-based senior secured credit agreements, dated as of April 4, 2014, with Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders, terminated November 16, 2017
•Sears Holdings - Sears Holdings Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries (other than, for all periods following the Separation, Lands' End)
•Sears Roebuck - Sears, Roebuck and Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sears Holdings 
•SEC - United States Securities and Exchange Commission
•Separation - On April 4, 2014 Sears Holdings distributed 100% of the outstanding common stock of Lands' End to its shareholders
•Tax Act - The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed by the United States government on December 22, 2017
•Term Loan Facility - Term loan credit agreements, dated as of April 4, 2014, with Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders
•UK Borrower - A United Kingdom subsidiary borrower of Lands' End under the Prior ABL Facility
Lands' End is an iconic American brand and a leading multi-channel retailer of casual clothing, accessories and footwear, as well as home products. We offer products through catalogs, online at www.landsend.com and affiliated specialty and international websites, and through retail locations. We have a passion for providing quality products, legendary service and great value. We seek to deliver timeless style for women, men, kids and the home. Lands' End was founded in 1963 by Gary Comer and his partners in Chicago, Illinois, to sell sailboat hardware and equipment by catalog. While our product focus has shifted significantly over the years, we have continued to adhere to our founder's motto as one of our guiding principles: "Take care of the customer, take care of the employee and the rest will take care of itself."

2

Strategy
In Fiscal 2017, we stabilized the brand by reconnecting with core customers. In Fiscal 2018 we plan to build momentum through four major growth initiatives:
Product. We are focused on delivering timeless pieces, made of quality materials and in classic styles, that offer great value to our core customers and their families. We strive to leverage customer data to develop product extensions that are natural to our heritage and incorporate functionality, comfort and product innovation. We are also focused on growing our uniform business with the innovative products we offer to meet the needs of our partners. 
Digital. We are focused on utilizing digital technologies to enhance our customers' experience and leveraging our comprehensive data analytics to better tailor and personalize the shopping experience for each customer. We are taking steps to become a quicker and more nimble digitally-led organization, adapting to ongoing shifts in customer shopping behaviors. We are implementing initiatives centered on improving and optimizing the customer experience across multiple device platforms by offering personalized messaging, improved product presentation and tailored product suggestions. The Company will continue to use a test and learn approach as it assesses new initiatives. 
Distribution. We utilize multi-point distribution, including our traditional catalogs, eCommerce and brick and mortar, to engage our customer where and how they shop. We plan to open new stand alone Lands' End stores to create an omni-channel experience and we anticipate opening our first new location in early Fiscal 2018 in the Chicago area. We plan to test and refine the store concept with additional stores, to create a store experience that embodies our brand, resonates well with our customers and offers a seamless experience. For Fiscal 2018 and beyond, we plan to apply a customer analytics-driven distribution strategy, where we leverage our comprehensive data set to define product mix, target store locations, and explore opportunities with third party business to consumer channels. 
Business Process. We continue to focus on building strategic competencies through improved business processes that are based on standardization and efficiency. We have implemented the foundational aspects of our enterprise resource planning solution to improve our core financial systems and pave the way to roll out more strategic competencies. We continue to upgrade our inventory planning process as we work to grow the business and operate as a global multi-channel player. In Fiscal 2018 and beyond, we also plan to focus on improving our order management and warehouse management systems, as well as optimizing our logistics and transportation capabilities, which will further enable us to improve our speed and efficiency. 
We believe that we have a competitive advantage as we build advanced analytic capabilities leveraging our comprehensive data set and are developing processes to capitalize on our brand heritage and interact with our customers in a personalized way, based on their behavior and lifestyles. 
In Fiscal 2017, we generated revenues of approximately $1.41 billion. Our revenues are generated worldwide through an international, multi-channel network based in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. This network reinforces and supports sales across the multiple channels in which we do business. In Fiscal 2017, we shipped products to approximately 155 countries outside the United States, totaling approximately $202.5 million, or 14.4% of revenue. This compares to sales outside of the United States in Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015 of $192.2 million and $208.6 million, or 14.4% and 14.7% of revenue, respectively. Sales inside the United States totaled $1,204.2 million, $1,143.5 million and $1,211.2 million in Fiscal 2017, Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, respectively.
Long-lived assets located inside the United States totaled $497.3 million and $485.1 million in Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. Outside of the United States, long-lived assets totaled $10.8 million and $9.8 million in Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively.

3

Segment Reporting
The Company has two reportable segments: Direct and Retail. Product revenue is divided into product categories: Apparel and Non-apparel. The Non-apparel revenue includes accessories, footwear, and home goods. Services and other revenue includes embroidery, monogramming, gift wrapping, shipping and other services. Net revenue is grouped by product category in the following table:

(in thousands) | Fiscal 2017 | % of Net revenue | | Fiscal 2016 | % of Net revenue | | Fiscal 2015 | % of Net revenue
Net revenue | | | | | | | | 
Apparel | $ | 1,144,950 | | 81.4 | % | | $ | 1,086,439 | | 81.3 | % | $ | 1,156,047 | 81.4 | %
Non-apparel | 176,287 | | 12.5 | % | | 168,945 | | 12.6 | % | | 183,073 | 12.9 | % 
Services and other | 85,440 | | 6.1 | % | | 80,376 | | 6.0 | % | | 80,658 | 5.7 | % 
Total net revenue | $ | 1,406,677 | | 100.0 | % | | $ | 1,335,760 | | 100.0 | % | $ | 1,419,778 | 100.0 | %

The Company identifies reportable segments according to how business activities are managed and evaluated. The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that offer similar products and services but are sold either directly from its warehouses (Direct) or through its retail stores (Retail). 
The Direct segment sells products through the Company's e-commerce websites and direct mail catalogs. Operating costs consist primarily of direct marketing costs (catalog and e-commerce marketing costs); order processing and shipping costs; direct labor and benefits costs and facility costs. Assets primarily include goodwill and trade name intangible assets, inventory, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses (deferred catalog costs), technology infrastructure, and property and equipment.
The Retail segment sells products and services through dedicated Lands' End Shops at Sears across the United States and the Company's Lands' End stores. Operating costs consist primarily of labor and benefits costs; occupancy costs; distribution costs; and in-store marketing costs. Assets primarily include inventory in the retail stores, fixtures and leasehold improvements.
Net revenue is presented by segment in the following table:

(in thousands) | Fiscal 2017 | % of Net revenue | | Fiscal 2016 | % of Net revenue | | Fiscal 2015 | % of Net revenue
Net revenue: | | | | | | | | 
Direct | $ | 1,234,115 | | 87.7% | | $ | 1,149,149 | | 86.0% | $ | 1,214,993 | 85.6% 
Retail | 172,562 | | 12.3% | | 186,611 | | 14.0% | | 204,785 | 14.4%
Total Net revenue | $ | 1,406,677 | | 100.0% | | $ | 1,335,760 | | 100.0% | $ | 1,419,778 | 100.0%

Additionally, selected financial data for our segments is presented in Note 12, Segment Reporting, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

4

Key Capabilities
Lands' End was founded on certain principles of doing business that are embodied in our goal to deliver great quality, uncompromising service and exceptional value to our customers. These core principles of quality, service and value are the foundation of the competitive advantages that we believe distinguish us from our competitors, including:
Customer base. Lands' End is an iconic American brand with a large and loyal customer base. Operating out of Wisconsin, in the heartland of the United States, our vision and values make a strong connection with our core customer. In Fiscal 2017, we believe we stabilized the brand by reconnecting with those core customers. We believe that a principal indicator of our success to date has been the growth of our buyer file in Fiscal 2017, with increases in new, retained and reactivated customers. We leverage multi-channel data to send personalized communications to our customers using both digital and print media. In Fiscal 2017, our customers had an average annual household income of $110,000 and the average customer's age is in the mid-50's, according to an analysis of our customer file with data provided by our third-party consumer information provider using its proprietary demographic, behavioral, lifestyle, financial and home attribute databases.
Product innovation. We seek to develop new, innovative products for our customers by utilizing modern fabrics and quality construction to create timeless, affordable styles with excellent fits. We also seek to present our products in an engaging and inspiring way. We believe that our typical customers value quality, seek good value for their money and are looking to add classics to their wardrobe while also placing an emphasis on comfort, functionality and product innovation that supports their lifestyle. From a design and merchandising perspective, we believe that we have had success adding relevant items into our product assortment, many of which have become customer favorites. We devote significant time and resources to quality assurance, fit testing and product compliance. Our in-house team manages all product specifications and seeks to ensure brand integrity by providing our customers with the consistent, high-quality merchandise for which Lands' End is known. We are a vertically integrated retailer that manages all aspects of our design, marketing and distribution in-house, which provides us with maximum control over the promotion and sale of our products.
Customer service. We are committed to building on Lands' End's legacy of strong customer service. We believe that we have a strong track record of improving the customer service experience through innovation. Today, Lands' End is focused on using our extensive customer data to make the shopping experience as easy and personalized as possible, regardless of whether our customers shop online, by phone or in one of our store locations. Our operations, including prompt order fulfillment, responsiveness to our customers' requests and our customer friendly return policy, have contributed to our award-winning customer service, which we believe is one of our core strengths and a key point of differentiation from our competitors. Due to our commitment to excellent customer service, we have received many accolades over the years and most recently, received the following:

• | Lands' End Earns StellaService's Elite Award for Phone and Email, which is awarded to retailers who provide the very best in customer care, Source: StellaService (March 15, 2017)


• | Land's End Named Customer Experience Leader, Source: Mulitchannel Merchant (March 17, 2017)


• | Lands' End Named Customer Service Champion, Source: Prosper Insights & Analytics. Featured on Forbes.com (August 3, 2017)

In addition, Lands' End introduced Text Messaging for Customer Service in 2016 - among the first in the apparel retail industry to do so.
Marketing
We believe that our most important asset is our brand. The Lands' End brand is well-recognized with a deeply rooted tradition of offering excellent quality, value and service along with the Lands' End guarantee. We seek to reflect that tradition in all of our merchandise. We also invest significantly in brand development through our focus on providing excellent customer service and our emphasis on digital transformation and innovative product development. We believe that this commitment to our brand has helped to generate our large and loyal customer base for over fifty years.

5

We attempt to build on our brand recognition through multi-channel marketing campaigns including an e-commerce website, www.landsend.com, catalog distribution, digital marketing and social media. Creative designs for these marketing platforms are primarily developed in-house by our creative team. We strive to be efficient in our overall spend, enabling us to invest in initiatives that we believe will yield benefits over the longer-term. We expect the majority of our marketing spend to be allocated to our catalog and digital marketing, where we believe we can generate near term return on investment. We are also seeking to enhance our branding initiatives by investing in strategic partnerships designed to showcase our apparel and personalizing promotions offered to customers.
Suppliers
Our products are produced globally by independent manufacturers who are selected, monitored and coordinated by the Lands' End Global Sourcing team based in Dodgeville, Wisconsin and other third party buying agents. Our products are manufactured in approximately 30 countries and substantially all are imported from Asia and South America, depending on the nature of the product mix. Our top 10 vendors accounted for approximately 40% of our merchandise purchases in Fiscal 2017. In Fiscal 2017, we worked with approximately 200 vendors that manufactured substantially all of our products. We generally do not enter into long-term merchandise supply contracts. We continue to take advantage of opportunities to more efficiently source our products worldwide, consistent with our high standards of quality and value. Significant areas of non-product spend include transportation, information systems, marketing, packaging and catalog paper and print. 
Distribution
We also own and operate three distribution centers in Wisconsin to support our United States Direct and Retail businesses and a portion of our international business. Our Dodgeville facility is approximately 1.1 million square feet and is a full-service distribution center, including monogramming, hemming and embroidery services. Our Reedsburg location is approximately 400,000 square feet and offers all order fulfillment services except hemming. Our Stevens Point distribution center is approximately 150,000 square feet and primarily focuses on supporting Lands' End Business Outfitters with embroidery services. Customer orders are shipped via UPS, USPS and third-party parcel consolidators.
We own and operate a distribution center in the United Kingdom based in Oakham, a community north of London. Order fulfillment and specialty services for our European businesses are performed at this facility, which opened in 1998 and totals approximately 175,000 square feet. We also lease a 55,580 square foot distribution center in Fujieda, Japan.
Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to our business.
Vendors
 It is important to us that our partners share the same values in business as we do, therefore, we require that the vendors comply with all legal requirements, agree to our global compliance requirements and meet our product quality standards. Our vendors are required to provide us with full access to their facilities and to relevant records relating to their employment practices, such as, but not limited to child labor, wages and benefits, forced labor, discrimination, freedom of association, unlawful inducements, safe and healthy working conditions and other business practices so that we may monitor their compliance with ethical and legal requirements relating to the conduct of their business.
Information Technology
Our information technology systems provide comprehensive support for the design, merchandising, importing, marketing, distribution, sales, order processing and fulfillment of our Lands' End products. We believe our merchandising and financial systems, coupled with our e-commerce platforms and point-of-sale systems, allow for effective merchandise planning and sales accounting.

6

We have a dedicated information technology team that provides strategic direction, application development, infrastructure services and systems support for the functions and processes of our business. The information technology team contracts with third-party consulting firms to provide cost-effective staff augmentation services and partners with leading hardware, software and cloud-based technology firms to provide the infrastructure necessary to run and operate our systems. Our core software applications are comprised of a combination of internally developed and packaged third-party systems. The e-commerce solutions powering www.landsend.com, the Lands' End Business Outfitters websites, and our international Lands' End websites are operated out of our own internal data centers as well, through hosting relationships with third parties and through industry-leading cloud providers.
We are in the process of implementing new information technology systems as part of a multi-year plan to expand and upgrade our information technology platforms and infrastructure. In Fiscal 2017, we implemented several financial, merchandising and inventory planning capabilities as part of our ongoing ERP implementation. We intend to build off of these core capabilities to drive future improvements in our operations. 
In Fiscal 2018, we intend to continue to pursue additional strategic investments, including continued development of our ERP platform, enterprise order management, and digital capabilities including enhanced mobile experiences, personalization, data science, and continued enhancements to the digital shopping experiences on our e-commerce platforms. In addition, we intend to invest in digital solutions to augment the customer and sales associate experiences within our Lands' End stand-alone stores.
The implementation of our ERP platform and other complementary information technology systems over the next several years are expected to create efficiencies within our internal processes and reporting. However, implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of numerous software, hardware, cloud and system integration providers. See also Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
We purchase, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to our operations from numerous suppliers around the world, including in the United States. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.
Competition
We operate primarily in the apparel industry. The apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete with a diverse group of direct-to-consumer companies and retailers, including national department store chains, men's
and women's specialty apparel chains, outdoor specialty stores, apparel catalog businesses, sportswear marketers and online apparel businesses that sell similar lines of merchandise. We compete principally on the basis of merchandise value (quality and price), product innovation, our established customer list and award-winning customer service, including reliable order fulfillment, our return policy and services and information provided at our user-friendly websites.
Seasonality
We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net revenue and operating results and historically have realized a significant portion of our net revenue and earnings for the year during our fourth fiscal quarter. We generated 36.3%, 34.4% and 33.4% of our net revenue in the fourth fiscal quarter of Fiscal 2017, Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, respectively. Thus, lower than expected fourth quarter net revenue could have an adverse impact on our annual operating results.
Working capital requirements typically increase during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year as inventory builds to support peak shipping/selling periods and, accordingly, typically decrease during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year as inventory is shipped/sold. Cash provided by operating activities is typically higher in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to reduced working capital requirements during that period.

7

Intellectual Property
Lands' End owns or has rights to use certain word and design trademarks, service marks, and trade names that are registered or exist under common law in the United States and other jurisdictions. The Lands' End® trade name and trademark is used both in the United States and internationally, and is material to our business. Trademarks that are important in identifying and distinguishing our products and services are Guaranteed. Period.®, Lighthouse by Lands' End™, Square Rigger®, Squall®, Super-T™, Drifter™, Outrigger®, Marinac®, and Beach Living®, all of which are owned by us, as well as the licensed marks Supima®, No-Gape®, and others. Other recognized trademarks owned by Lands' End include SwimMates™, Starfish™, Iron Knees®, Willis & Geiger® and ThermaCheck®. Lands' End's rights to some of these trademarks are limited to select markets.
Employees
We employ approximately 5,000 employees throughout our operations: approximately 4,100 employees in the United States and approximately 900 employees outside the United States. With the seasonal nature of the retail industry, over 2,000 flexible part-time employees join us each year to support our varying peak seasons, including the fourth quarter holiday shopping season. The non-peak workforce is comprised of approximately 19% salaried employees, 40% hourly employees and 41% part-time employees.
Pledged Assets
All domestic obligations under the Debt Facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and, subject to certain exceptions, each of its existing and future direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. The Current ABL Facility is secured by a first priority security interest in certain working capital of the borrowers and guarantors consisting primarily of accounts receivable and inventory. The Term Loan Facility is secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral, with certain exceptions.
The Term Loan Facility also is secured by a first priority security interest in certain property and assets of the borrowers and guarantors, including certain fixed assets and stock of subsidiaries. The Current ABL Facility is secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral.
The Prior ABL Facility had the same terms to those stated above. In addition, the obligations of the UK Borrower under the Prior ABL Facility were guaranteed by its existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries organized in the United Kingdom.
Corporate Citizenship
Sustainability Initiatives. Lands' End is working towards improving its sustainable footprint through key practices like waste reduction, purchasing recycled products and through corporate partnerships. Lands' End hopes to inspire customers and other corporations to increase sustainability awareness and initiatives.
We have a focus on raising awareness and educating associates on reducing our internal use of consumables and natural resources. In addition, we have a broad range of recycling and waste management initiatives at our corporate office and distribution centers to address our use of paper products, aluminum cans, glass, electronics and plastic as well as maintenance operations, disposal of non-recyclables with composting and water management. In 2017, we reused or recycled approximately 85% of waste generated at our corporate headquarters. 
Additionally, we believe that we also demonstrate marketplace leadership by participating in industry educational workshops and initiatives. Lands' End has formed strategic partnerships with organizations like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, bluesign, National Forest Foundation, where we have helped plant over 1 million trees, and the Clean Lakes Alliance, where we help protect and improve maintenance of local lakes in Wisconsin. These partnerships, which respectively operate globally, nationally, and locally allow us to engage at a variety of levels. 
Corporate Giving. Lands' End is dedicated to helping our communities around the world. Through our efforts, we have strategically partnered with a number of local and national not-for-profit organizations to help people and animals in need. 

8

In 2017, Lands' End partnered with the American Red Cross to provide support to their disaster relief efforts following Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria and the wildfires in California. Our annual Pink Thread™ Project supports the efforts of the Breast Cancer Research Foundation by advancing the world's most promising research to end breast cancer. In addition, we have partnered with the Skin Cancer Foundation, the American Heart Association and Freedom Service Dogs of America. We also partner with local food pantries in support of Hunger Action Month. 
Additionally, we help our employees connect with volunteer opportunities in their hometowns and we honor the time they give by matching their fundraising efforts with our contribution program.
History 
We were founded in 1963, incorporated in Delaware in 1986 and our common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange from 1986 to 2002. On June 17, 2002, we became a wholly owned subsidiary of Sears Roebuck. Sears Holdings distributed 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Lands' End to its stockholders on April 4, 2014.
According to statements on form Schedule 13D filed with the SEC by ESL, ESL beneficially owned significant portions of both the Company's and Sears Holdings Corporation's outstanding shares of common stock. Therefore Sears Holdings Corporation, the Company's former parent company, is considered a related party both prior to and subsequent to the Separation.
In connection with and subsequent to the Separation, we entered into various agreements with Sears Holdings or its subsidiaries that govern our relationship with Sears Holdings with respect to the Lands' End Shops at Sears, various general corporate services, and other relationships. See Note 11, Related Party Agreements and Transactions. 
Corporate Information
Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Lands' End Lane, Dodgeville, Wisconsin 53595. Our telephone number is (608) 935-9341.
Available Information, Internet Address and Internet Access to Current and Periodic Reports and Other Information
Our website address is www.landsend.com. References to www.landsend.com do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information at www.landsend.com, and such information is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports electronically with the SEC, and they are available on the SEC's web site (www.sec.gov). We also make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports available through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, all reports filed by Lands' End with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Related Party Relationships Committee of the Board of Directors, our Related Party Transactions Policy, our Director Compensation Policy, our Code of Conduct, and our Board of Directors Code of Conduct are available at the "Investor Relations" link under "Corporate Governance" at www.landsend.com.

9

Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers, including their positions. 


Name | Position | Age | Date First Became an Executive Officer
Jerome S. Griffith | Chief Executive Officer and President | 60 | 2017 
James F. Gooch | Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer | 50 | 2016 
Peter L. Gray | Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary | 50 | 2017 
Gill Hong | Executive Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer and Head of International | 51 | 2017 
Kelly Ritchie | Senior Vice President, Employee and Customer Services | 54 | 1999 

Jerome S. Griffith joined Lands' End as Chief Executive Officer and President and as a member of the Board of Directors in March 2017. He served as the Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the board of directors of Tumi Holdings, Inc., a manufacturer and retailer of consumer goods including business bags, luggage, apparel and other travel-related goods, from April 2009 until its sale to Samsonite International S.A. in August 2016. From 2002 to February 2009, he was employed at Esprit Holdings Limited, a global fashion brand, where he was promoted to Chief Operating Officer and appointed to the board in 2004, then promoted to President of Esprit North and South America in 2006. From 1999 to 2002, he worked as an executive vice president at Tommy Hilfiger, a global fashion brand. From 1998 to 1999, he worked as the president of retail at the J. Peterman Company, a catalog-based apparel and retail company. From 1989 through 1998, he worked in various positions of increasing responsibility at Gap, Inc., a global clothing and accessories retailer. He has served as a member of the board of Vince Holding Corp. since November 2013, Samsonite International S.A. since August 2016, and Parsons School of Design, which is part of the New School, since September 2013. 
James F. Gooch joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 2016. He also served as our Co-Interim Chief Executive Officer from September 2016 to March 2017. From March 2014 until December 2014, he served as Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of DeMoulas Supermarkets, Inc., a regional supermarket chain. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of RadioShack Corporation, an electronics retailer, from May 2011 to October 2012, as President and Chief Financial Officer of RadioShack Corporation from January 2011 to May 2011, and as Chief Financial Officer of RadioShack Corporation from August 2006 to January 2011. Earlier in his career he was employed by Helene Curtis, The Quaker Oats Company, Kmart Corporation, and Sears Holdings. Mr. Gooch has served as a member of the board of directors of Sears Hometown and Outlet Stores, Inc. since March 2013.
Peter L. Gray joined Lands' End as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2017. Mr. Gray served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Tumi Holdings, Inc., a manufacturer and retailer of consumer goods including business bags, luggage, apparel and other travel-related goods, from December 2013 until November 2016. He was employed by ModusLink Global Solutions, Inc. (formerly CMGI, Inc.), a supply chain business process management company from June 1999 to October 2013. Beginning in March 2002, he was ModusLink's Executive Vice President and General Counsel, additionally becoming its Secretary in December 2005 and its Chief Administrative Officer in June 2012. Prior to joining ModusLink, Mr. Gray was Assistant General Counsel at Cambridge Technology Partners (Massachusetts), Inc., and a junior partner at Hale and Dorr LLP. Mr. Gray also serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Tufts University Hillel Foundation.

10

Gill Hong joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer and Head of International in November 2017. From January 2016 until July 2016 she was employed by Gap, Inc., a global clothing and accessories retailer, as an Executive Advisor, consulting primarily for Old Navy. From June 2014 until October 2015 she served as Chief Merchandising Officer for Oakley, Inc. which designs, develops and manufactures sports performance equipment and lifestyle products. She served as Vice President and General Manager of signature sub-brand and Vice President of Younger Customer Initiatives at L.L. Bean, a leading U.S. catalog company and supplier of outdoor gear, from November 2011 until June 2014. Prior to that, she spent 17 years in progressive leadership roles in retail, brand strategy, marketing and merchandising at NIKE leading both global and European businesses.
Kelly Ritchie joined Lands' End in 1985 and has served as Senior Vice President, Employee and Customer Services since 2003, assuming responsibility for our distribution centers in 2005. She served as Senior Vice President, Employee Services from 1999 until 2003. She also served as Vice President of Employee Services from 1995 to 1999 and in various other Customer Service and Employee Services roles from 1985 to 1995.

11

