Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. BUSINESS
 COMPANY OVERVIEW
 We are a biopharmaceutical research and development company specializing in oncology. Our focus is on the discovery, research and clinical development of novel anti-cancer drug candidates that employ novel linker technologies to enhance the accumulation and release of cytotoxic anti-cancer agents at the tumor. Since 2008, we have worked to develop aldoxorubicin. In July 2017 we entered into an exclusive worldwide license under which NantCell, Inc. took over development of aldoxorubicin, invested in our common stock and agreed to make future milestone and royalty payments upon the successful development and commercialization of aldoxorubicin.  We are now actively pursuing new anti-cancer compounds through our drug discovery and research operation at our laboratory facilities in Freiburg, Germany led by Felix Kratz, Ph.D., Vice President of Drug Discovery and inventor of aldoxorubicin.
 We are a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 1985. Our corporate offices are located at 11726 San Vicente Boulevard, Suite 650, Los Angeles, California 90049, and our telephone number is (310) 826-5648. Our web site is located at http://www.cytrx.com. We do not incorporate by reference into this Annual Report the information on, or accessible through, our website, and you should not consider it as part of this Annual Report.
 LADR Drug Discovery Platform
 The LADR™ (Linker Activated Drug Release) technology platform is a discovery engine combining our expertise in linker chemistry and albumin biology to create a pipeline of anti-cancer molecules that will avoid unacceptable systemic toxicity while delivering highly potent agents directly to the tumor.  We have created a "toolbox" of linker technologies that have the ability to significantly increase the therapeutic index of ultra-high potency drugs (10-1,000 times more potent than traditional chemotherapies) by controlling the release of the drug payloads and improving drug-like properties.
 
Our current efforts are focused on two classes of ultra-high potency albumin-binding drug conjugates.  These drug conjugates combine our proprietary LADR™ linkers with novel derivatives of the auristatin and maytansinoid drug classes.  These payloads historically have required a targeting antibody for successful administration to humans.  Our drug conjugates eliminate the need for a targeting antibody and provide a small molecule therapeutic option with potential broader applicability.
 
Our postulated mechanism of action for the albumin-binding drug conjugates is as follows:
  
● | after administration, the linker portion of the drug conjugate forms a rapid and specific covalent bond to the cysteine-34 position of circulating albumin;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | circulating albumin preferentially accumulates at the tumors, bypassing concentration in other non-tumor sites, including the heart, liver and gastrointestinal tract due to a mechanism called "Enhanced Permeability and Retention";
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | once localized at the tumor, the acid-sensitive linker is cleaved due to the specific conditions within the tumor and in the tumor microenvironment; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | free active drug is then released.
--+-----------------------------------



Our strategy across these programs is to generate additional pre-clinical data that will allow them to make informed decisions regarding the selection of one or both programs for moving into human clinical trials either independently or on a partnered basis.
 
We recently entered into an agreement with Destum Partners, Inc., a leading strategic advisory firm serving companies in the life sciences industry, to assist in our pharma partnering activities. Destum will be our exclusive advisor for the identification of partnership opportunities for LADR™ ultra-high potency drug conjugates.
 
During 2017, our discovery laboratory synthesized and tested over 75 rationally designed drug conjugates with highly potent cytotoxic payloads, and two distinct classes of compounds have been created.  To date, four lead candidates have been selected based on in vitro and animal preclinical studies, stability, and manufacturing feasibility.  Additional animal efficacy and toxicology testing of these lead candidates is underway.
  CytRx 2017 10-K Page #3#
 
 Aldoxorubicin
 Until July 2017, we were focused on the research and clinical development of aldoxorubicin, our modified version of the widely-used chemotherapeutic agent, doxorubicin. Aldoxorubicin combines the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin with a novel linker-molecule that binds specifically to albumin in the blood to allow for delivery of higher amounts of doxorubicin (3½ to 4 times) without several of the major dose-limiting toxicities seen with administration of doxorubicin alone.
 
On July 27, 2017, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license with NantCell, Inc. ("NantCell"), granting to NantCell the exclusive rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize aldoxorubicin in all indications, and our company is no longer directly working on development of aldoxorubicin.  As part of the license, NantCell made a strategic investment of $13 million in CytRx common stock at $6.60 per share (adjusted to reflect our 2017 reverse stock split), a premium of 92% to the market price on that date. We also issued NantCell a warrant to purchase up to 500,000 shares of common stock at $6.60 over the following 18 months. We are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $343 million in potential milestone payments contingent upon achievement of certain regulatory approvals and commercial milestones. We are also entitled to receive ascending double-digit royalties for net sales for soft tissue sarcomas and mid to high single digit royalties for other indications.
 
Aldoxorubicin is a conjugate of the commonly prescribed chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin that binds to circulating albumin in the bloodstream and is believed to concentrate the drug at the site of the tumor. Aldoxorubicin, our lead clinical candidate, has been tested in over 600 patients with various types of cancer. Specifically, it is comprised of (6-maleimidocaproyl) hydrazine, an acid-sensitive molecule that is conjugated to doxorubicin.  The initial indication for aldoxorubicin is for patients with advanced soft tissue sarcomas (STS).
 
Aldoxorubicin has received Orphan Drug Designation (ODD) by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of STS. ODD provides several benefits including seven years of market exclusivity after approval, certain R&D related tax credits, and protocol assistance by the FDA.  European regulators granted aldoxorubicin Orphan designation for STS which confers ten years of market exclusivity among other benefits.
 
In the first quarter of 2018, we announced that NantCell was expanding aldoxorubicin's use by combining it with immunotherapies and cell-based treatments, specifically in metastatic pancreatic cancer and in advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck or non-small cell lung cancer.
 
OUR CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
 Our current clinical development programs are discussed below.
 Aldoxorubicin
 Aldoxorubicin is a conjugate of the commonly prescribed chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin that binds to circulating albumin in the bloodstream and is believed to concentrate the drug at the site of tumors.  Specifically, it is comprised of (6-maleimidocaproyl) hydrazine, an acid-sensitive molecule that is conjugated to doxorubicin. Aldoxorubicin was out-licensed to NantCell in July 2017.
 Aldoxorubicin for the Treatment of Cancer. Anthracyclines are a class of drugs that are among the most commonly used agents in the treatment of cancer. Doxorubicin, the first anthracycline to gain FDA approval, has demonstrated efficacy in a wide variety of cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer, sarcomas, and lymphomas. However, due to the uptake of doxorubicin by various parts of the body, it is associated with side effects such as cumulative cardiotoxicity, myelosuppression (decreased production of blood cells by bone marrow), gastrointestinal disorders, mucositis (inflammation of the mucous membranes lining the mouth and digestive tract), stomatitis (inflammation of soft tissue of the mouth), and necrotizing extravasation (damage due to the leakage of intravenous drugs from the vein into the surrounding tissue).
 We believe aldoxorubicin has attributes that may improve on doxorubicin, alone, which we sometimes refer to as native doxorubicin, including the potential to increase the total doxorubicin dose, reduce certain adverse events associated with native doxorubicin, achieve increased drug concentration at tumor sites and improve efficacy.
 Pre-clinical data. In a variety of preclinical models, aldoxorubicin was superior to doxorubicin at equitoxic doses in its ability to allow an increase in the total doxorubicin dose, its antitumor efficacy and its safety, including a reduction in cardiotoxicity. Animal studies conducted by aldoxorubicin inventor Dr. Felix Kratz demonstrated statistically significant efficacy compared to both placebo and native doxorubicin against breast, ovarian, pancreatic and small cell lung cancer models growing in immunodeficient mice.
 Clinical data. In July 2016, we announced the initial analysis of top-line data from our on-going global, randomized Phase 3 clinical trial of aldoxorubicin as a treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory soft tissue sarcomas, or STS. The trial enrolled 433 patients.  Aldoxorubicin performed better than investigator's choice for the entire study population, and narrowly missed statistical significance in progression-free survival, or PFS (p=0.12; HR=0.81, 95% CI 0.64-1.06), the trial's primary endpoint.  All responses were determined by an independent, blinded central radiology lab assessment of scans.
  CytRx 2017 10-K Page #4#
 
On November 29, 2016, we announced updated results from the Phase 3 clinical trial, which demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS between aldoxorubicin and investigator's choice therapy in 246 patients with either leiomyosarcoma or liposarcoma, (p=0.007).  The hazard ratio (HR) was 0.62 (95% CI 0.44-0.88), representing a 38% reduction in the risk of tumor progression for patients receiving aldoxorubicin versus investigator's choice.  Leiomyosarcoma and liposarcoma, the two most common types of STS, accounted for 57% of the patients enrolled in the overall trial.  Aldoxorubicin also demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS over investigator's choice in 312 patients treated in North America plus Australia (p=0.028; HR=0.71, 95% CI 0.53-0.97).
 Aldoxorubicin did not cause clinically significant cardiac, renal, or hepatic toxicities.  For the global trial population, the most commonly reported adverse events were neutropenia and anemia consistent with prior clinical trials with aldoxorubicin. Grade 3 or higher adverse events were manageable with supportive care and occurred at a rate of 61% for patients receiving aldoxorubicin and 46% in patients treated with investigator's choice.  Treatment-emergent adverse events leading to discontinuation occurred in 4.2% of patients treated with aldoxorubicin, compared to 6.3% for patients receiving investigator's choice.  Serious adverse events, primarily febrile neutropenia that resolved and rarely led to treatment termination occurred more frequently in patients administered aldoxorubicin.  Three treatment-related deaths occurred in aldoxorubicin-treated patients, while there were no treatment-related deaths among patients receiving investigators' choice of drugs.
 Based upon the updated results of the Phase 3 trial, we met with the FDA in the first quarter of 2017. Following the meeting with the FDA, we announced that we planned to pursue a 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for a New Drug Application (NDA) filing.
 We completed our global Phase 2b clinical trial to evaluate the preliminary efficacy and safety of aldoxorubicin as a first-line therapy in patients with advanced STS who are ineligible for surgery. The 123-subject Phase 2b clinical trial provided the first direct clinical trial comparison of aldoxorubicin and native doxorubicin as a first-line therapy for STS. The primary endpoint was PFS as determined by a blinded radiology review performed at an independent central radiology laboratory. The results from this trial were published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) Oncology in September 2015 (JAMA Oncology 2015 Sep 17:1-9.).
 In the Phase 2b clinical trial, aldoxorubicin was found to be relatively safe and well-tolerated. Subjects treated with aldoxorubicin had an approximately two-fold increase in severe neutropenia compared with doxorubicin-treated subjects, but there was no difference in the incidence of febrile neutropenia (indicating an infection may be present) between the two groups. All adverse events in subjects treated with aldoxorubicin were consistent with the known side effects of doxorubicin, usually resolved before the administration of the next dose and did not require treatment discontinuation. There were no treatment-related deaths in the aldoxorubicin group.
 A Phase 1 study of aldoxorubicin that demonstrated safety and objective clinical responses in several tumor types was completed in 2005 and published in Clinical Cancer Research in August 2007.  Of 35 evaluable patients, 23 had either an objective clinical (partial) response or stable disease.
 We completed a Phase 1b/2 clinical trial with aldoxorubicin in patients with advanced solid tumors who had either relapsed or failed to respond to their prior chemotherapy. Clinical benefit was shown in ten of 13 (76.9%) evaluable patients with relapsed or refractory STS. There were no observed cardiac toxicities and no drug-related patient deaths. The results of this clinical trial were published in February 2015 in the peer-reviewed journal Cancer (Cancer, 2015 Feb 15; 121(4); 570-9).
 Our Phase 1b clinical trial evaluating pharmacokinetics demonstrated that aldoxorubicin has a distribution half-life of approximately 20 to 24 hours, with a narrow volume of distribution to healthy tissue and slow clearance from the circulation. Complete details from this trial were published in the journal Investigational New Drugs (Invest New Drugs, 2015 Apr 15; (33(2):341-8).
 In September 2016, we completed enrollment in our global Phase 2b clinical trial evaluating aldoxorubicin compared to topotecan in subjects with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have relapsed or were refractory to prior chemotherapy. The open-label Phase 2b clinical trial enroll approximately 135 patients (1:1 randomization).  The primary endpoint is PFS and the secondary endpoints are OS, overall response rates (partial and complete) and the safety of aldoxorubicin compared to topotecan in this population.  This trial was ongoing when aldoxorubicin was out-licensed to NantCell, Inc.
  We completed a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the preliminary efficacy and safety of aldoxorubicin in patients with unresectable glioblastoma whose tumors have progressed following prior treatment with surgery, radiation and with the drug temozolomide. The clinical trial has enrolled its target of 28 patients and demonstrated that an albumin-binding therapy can enter the brain and have anti-tumor activity. At the 2016 American Society for Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting, the trial results were presented including the median overall survival of 8.6 months.
 We completed a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the preliminary efficacy of aldoxorubicin in patients with AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma. Results presented at the 2016 ASCO Annual Meeting showed that aldoxorubicin localized in the tumor lesions and compared to non-tumor tissues.  Eleven of 13 patients (85%) treated with low dose aldoxorubicin achieved a partial response at week four.
 We also conducted a Phase 1b/2 trial in combination with ifosfamide in patients with STS, and completed a Phase 1b trial in combination with gemcitabine in subjects with metastatic solid tumors. Since most chemotherapy agents are administered in combination with other chemotherapeutics, these studies will demonstrate the dose of aldoxorubicin that can be administered with two other chemotherapies that are commonly used to treated patients with sarcomas, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer and lung cancer.
  CytRx 2017 10-K Page #5#
 
Disposition of Molecular Chaperone Assets
 Until 2011, we owned the rights to two drug candidates, arimoclomol and iroxanadine, based on molecular chaperone regulation technology that were designed to repair or degrade mis-folded proteins associated with disease. On May 13, 2011, we sold all pre-clinical and clinical data, intellectual property rights and other assets relating to those compounds to Orphazyme ApS in exchange for a cash payment of $150,000 and the right to receive various future payments that are contingent upon the achievement of specified regulatory and business milestones, as well as royalty payments based on a specified percentage of any eventual net sales of products derived from the assets. 
Innovive Acquisition Agreement
 On September 19, 2008, we completed our merger acquisition of Innovive Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Innovive, and its clinical-stage cancer product candidates, including aldoxorubicin and tamibarotene. Under the merger agreement by which we acquired Innovive, we agreed to pay the former Innovive stockholders up to approximately $18.3 million of future earnout merger consideration, subject to our achievement of specified net sales under the Innovive license agreements. The earnout merger consideration, if any, will be payable in shares of our common stock, subject to specified conditions, or, at our election, in cash or by a combination of shares of our common stock and cash. Our common stock will be valued for purposes of any future earnout merger consideration based upon the trading price of our common stock at the time the earnout merger consideration is paid. The earnout will be accrued if and when earned.
Research and Development
 Expenditures for research and development activities related to continuing operations were $19.8 million, $35.9 million and $43.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, or approximately 60%, 68% and 68%, respectively, of our total expenses. For further information regarding our research and development activities, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below.
Manufacturing
 We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture clinical supplies of aldoxorubicin or any of our other product candidates, and we lack the resources and capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a commercial scale. Accordingly, we are dependent upon third-party manufactures, or potential future strategic alliance partners, to manufacture these supplies. Currently, we are no longer responsible for manufacturing aldoxorubicin, having entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with NantCell, Inc.
Commercialization and Marketing
 We currently have no sales, marketing or commercial product distribution capabilities or experience in marketing products. 
 As additional product candidates advance through our pipeline, our commercial plans may change. In particular, some of our pipeline assets target potentially large solid tumor indications.  Factors such as clinical data, the size of the development programs, the size of the target market, the size of a commercial infrastructure, and manufacturing needs may influence our strategies in the U.S., the European Union, and other territories.
  CytRx 2017 10-K Page #6#
 
Patents and Proprietary Technology
 We actively seek patent protection for our technologies, processes, uses, and ongoing improvements and consider our patents and other intellectual property to be critical to our business. We regularly evaluate the patentability of new inventions and improvements developed by us or our collaborators, and, whenever appropriate, will endeavor to file U.S. and international patent applications to protect these new inventions and improvements. We cannot be certain that any of the current pending patent applications we have filed or licensed, or any new patent applications we may file or license, will ever be issued in the U.S. or any other country. There also is no assurance that any issued patents will be effective to prevent others from using our products or processes. It is also possible that any patents issued to us, as well as those we have licensed or may license in the future, may be held invalid or unenforceable by a court, or third parties could obtain patents that we would need to either license or to design around, which we may be unable to do. Current and future competitors may have licensed or filed patent applications or received patents, and may acquire additional patents and proprietary rights relating to compounds, products or processes that may be competitive with ours.
 In addition to patent protection, we attempt to protect our proprietary products, processes and other information by relying on trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and certain other persons who have access to such products, processes and information. Under the agreements, all inventions conceived by employees are our exclusive property, but there is no assurance that these agreements will afford significant protection against misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets and confidential information.
 As of December 31, 2017, we have three pending U.S. patent applications and thirteen pending foreign patent applications covering our LADRTM-related technology and DK049. The unextended patent term of patents that issue covering our LADRTM-related technology and DK049 is June 2038. In conjunction with our July 27, 2017 NantCell licensing agreement, we granted NantCell an exclusive license to all our aldoxorubicin-related patents, including the rights in four granted U.S. patents, 72 granted foreign patents, two pending U.S. patent applications, and fourteen pending foreign patent applications covering aldoxorubicin and related technologies. Our intellectual property holdings relating to aldoxorubicin and related technologies include an exclusive license from Vergell Medical, S.A. or Vergell, to U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications. Patents and applications that cover pharmaceutical compositions of aldoxorubicin, processes for their production, and their use in treatment methods (e.g., cancer (including glioblastoma), viral diseases, autoimmune diseases, and acute or chronic inflammatory diseases) have unextended patent terms expiring between June 2020 and June 2034. 
 
LICENSE AGREEMENTS
 Aldoxorubicin
 We are the licensee of patent rights held by KTB for the worldwide development and commercialization of aldoxorubicin under a license agreement dated April 17, 2006. In February 2017, we received notice that KTB had transferred and assigned its rights and obligations under the license to Vergell Medical, S.A. The license is exclusive and applies to all products that may be subject to the licensed intellectual property in all fields of use. We may sublicense the intellectual property in our sole discretion. Pursuant to an amendment to the license agreement entered into in March 2014, we also have a non-exclusive worldwide license to any additional technology that is claimed or disclosed in the licensed patents and patent applications for use in the field of oncology.
 Under the agreement, we must make payments to Vergell in the aggregate of up to $7.5 million upon meeting clinical and regulatory milestones, and up to and including the product's second final marketing approval. We also agreed to pay:
  
● | commercially reasonable royalties based on a percentage of net sales (as defined in the agreement);
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | a percentage of any non-royalty sub-licensing income (as defined in the agreement); and
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | milestones of $1 million for each additional final marketing approval that we obtain.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


In the event that we must pay a third party in order to exercise our rights to the intellectual property under the agreement, we are entitled to deduct a percentage of those payments from the royalties due Vergell, up to an agreed upon cap.
 Under the agreement with Vergell, we must use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct the research and development activities we determine are necessary to obtain regulatory approval to market aldoxorubicin in those countries that we determine are commercially feasible. Under the agreement, Vergell is to use its commercially reasonable efforts to provide us with access to suppliers of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of aldoxorubicin, on the same terms and conditions as may be provided to Vergell by those suppliers.
 The agreement will expire on a product-by-product basis upon the expiration of the subject patent rights. We have the right to terminate the agreement on 30 days' notice, provided we pay a cash penalty to Vergell. Vergell may terminate the agreement if we are in breach and the breach is not cured within a specified cure period, or if we fail to use diligent and commercial efforts to meet specified clinical milestones.
  CytRx 2017 10-K Page #7#
 
Competition
 The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our LADR™ technology platform and ultra-high potency albumin-bind drug conjugates provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any drug candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future.
 Many competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater scientific, research and product development capabilities, as well as greater financial, marketing and human resources than we do. In addition, many specialized biotechnology firms have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support the research, development and commercialization of products that may be competitive with ours.   There are many companies developing antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) for the treatment of cancer that use the same classes of cytotoxic payloads as we are currently using.  These include Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Seattle Genetics Inc. who market Adcetris®, and F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd./Genentech who market Kadcyla®.  According to www.clinicaltrials.gov, there are approximately 75 clinical trials testing an ADC that are either on-going or currently enrolling.  Other companies have created or have programs to create potent cell‑killing agents for attachment to antibodies or other targeting agents. These companies may compete with us for technology out‑license arrangements.
 In addition to ADCs, we face competition from other nanomedicine platforms developing targeted therapies, including platforms focused on nanoparticles and liposomes. Non‑ADC therapies may be in development for the cancer types we or our partners elect to pursue.  Further, these companies may also compete with us for technology out‑license arrangements.
 Continuing development of conventional and targeted chemotherapeutics by large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies may result in new compounds that may compete with our product candidates. More recently, immuno-oncology therapies that stimulate the body's own defense system to attack cancers are being developed by certain of these companies and some have been approved for use as cancer therapeutics. In the future, immuno-oncology agents including cell therapies, targeted therapies or cytotoxic treatments may compete with our product candidates. Other companies have created or have programs to create potent cell‑killing agents for attachment to tumor targeting agents. These companies may compete with us for technology out‑license arrangements.
 Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we obtain approval for ours. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic products. If our drug candidates achieve marketing approval, we expect that they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic products.
     Many companies, including large pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms with financial resources, research and development staffs, and facilities that may be substantially greater than those of ours or our strategic partners or licensees, are engaged in the research and development of pharmaceutical products that could compete with our potential products. To the extent that we seek to acquire, through license or otherwise, existing or potential new products, we will be competing with numerous other companies, many of which will have substantially greater financial resources, large acquisition and research and development staffs that may give those companies a competitive advantage over us in identifying and evaluating these drug acquisition opportunities. Any products that we acquire will be competing with products marketed by companies that in many cases will have substantially greater marketing resources than we have. The industry is characterized by rapid technological advances and competitors may develop their products more rapidly and such products may be more effective than those currently under development or that may be developed in the future by our strategic partners or licensees. Competitive products for a number of the disease indications that we have targeted are currently being marketed by other parties, and additional competitive products are under development and may also include products currently under development that we are not aware of or products that may be developed in the future.
 
 CytRx 2017 10-K Page #8#
 
Government Regulation
 The U.S. and other developed countries extensively regulate the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of drugs and biologic products. The FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations, regulates pharmaceutical and biologic products.
 To obtain approval of our product candidates from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy for the intended indication as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate. In most cases, this will require extensive laboratory tests and preclinical and clinical trials. The collection of these data, as well as the preparation of applications for review by the FDA involve significant time and expense. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing to monitor the safety and efficacy of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the therapeutic claims and commercial applications of these products. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if we encounter problems at any time following initial marketing of our products.
 The first stage of the FDA approval process for a new drug involves completion of preclinical studies and the submission of the results of these studies to the FDA. These data, together with proposed clinical protocols, manufacturing information, analytical data and other information submitted to the FDA, in an investigational new drug application, or IND, must become effective before human clinical trials may commence. Preclinical studies generally involve FDA regulated laboratory evaluation of product characteristics and animal studies to assess the efficacy and safety of the product candidate.
 
After the IND becomes effective, a company may commence human clinical trials. These are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing of the product candidate in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses. Phase 2 trials, in addition to safety, evaluate the efficacy of the product candidate in a patient population somewhat larger than Phase 1 trials. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at multiple test sites. A company must submit to the FDA a clinical protocol, accompanied by the approval of the Institutional Review Boards at the institutions participating in the trial, prior to commencement of each clinical trial.
 To obtain FDA marketing authorization, a company must submit to the FDA the results of the preclinical and clinical testing, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate, in the form of a new drug application, or NDA.
 The amount of time taken by the FDA for approval of an NDA will depend upon a number of factors, including whether the product candidate has received priority review, the quality of the submission and studies presented, the potential contribution that the compound will make in improving the treatment of the disease in question, and the workload at the FDA.
 The FDA may, in some cases, confer upon an investigational product the status of a fast-track product. A fast-track product is defined as a new drug or biologic intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition that demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition. The FDA can base approval of an NDA for a fast-track product on an effect on a surrogate endpoint, or on another endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. If a preliminary review of clinical data suggests that a fast-track product may be effective, the FDA may initiate review of entire sections of a marketing application for a fast-track product before the sponsor completes the application.
 We anticipate that our products will be manufactured by our strategic partners, licensees or other third parties. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the manufacturing facilities are in compliance with the FDA's cGMP, which are regulations that govern the manufacture, holding and distribution of a product. Our manufacturers also will be subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Control Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Following approval, the FDA periodically inspects drug and biologic manufacturing facilities to ensure continued compliance with the good manufacturing practices regulations. Our manufacturers will have to continue to comply with those requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing or recall or seizure of product. Adverse patient experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of marketing restrictions through labeling changes or market removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval.
 The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product also must be in compliance with FDA and Federal Trade Commission requirements which include, among others, standards and regulations for off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, promotional activities involving the internet, and direct-to-consumer advertising. We also will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. In addition, we will be subject to various laws and regulations governing laboratory practices and the experimental use of animals. In each of these areas, as above, the FDA has broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of product approvals, seize or recall products, and deny or withdraw approvals.
 We will also be subject to a variety of regulations governing clinical trials and sales of our products outside the U.S. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product candidate by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries and regions must be obtained prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from one regulatory authority to another and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. In the European Union, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar, in principle, to those in the U.S
 
 CytRx 2017 10-K Page #9#
 
Employees
 As of March 16, 2018, we had twenty employees, thirteen of whom were engaged in preclinical research at our Freiburg, Germany laboratory, and seven of whom were involved in management and administrative operations.
Available Information
 We maintain a website at www.cytrx.com and make available there, free of charge, our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as soon as is reasonably practicable after filing. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers such as us that file electronically with the SEC. Among other things, we post on our website our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Potential Strategic Alternatives
 From time to time, we may consider strategic alternatives available to us to enhance shareholder value. Strategic alternatives could include the acquisition of or strategic partnership with one or more parties or the licensing of some of our proprietary technologies. See "Item 1A – Risk Factors – The impact and results of our exploration of strategic alternatives are uncertain and may not be successful."
