Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

First person pronouns used in this Report, such as “we,” “us,” and “our,” refer to ICU Medical, Inc. ("ICU") and its subsidiaries unless context requires otherwise.
Company Background
ICU was founded in 1984 and our initial public offering was in 1992. Our headquarters are in San Clemente, California. In 1993, we launched the Clave®, an innovative one-piece needlefree intravenous ("IV") connection device. Since the late 1990's, we have expanded our product offerings by introducing internally developed products and systems. Key developments have included the MicroClave Clear connector as an update to the Clave, Tego® needlefree connector for use in hemodialysis, products for handling hazardous drugs including the ChemoClave® and ChemoLock® CSTDs (“closed-system transfer devices”, the Diana™ hazardous drug compounding system, and the Neutron®, a catheter patency device. 
Starting in the mid-2000s we began to also pursue acquisitions to broaden our product portfolio and/or our distribution network.
In August 2009, we purchased all commercial rights and physical assets from Hospira Inc.'s critical care product line, which provided us control over all aspects of our critical care product line.
In October 2015, we acquired Excelsior Medical Corporation’s SwabCap® disinfecting cap for needlefree IV connectors to enhance our direct and OEM infusion therapy product offerings and to open new customer opportunities globally.
In February 2017, we acquired Pfizer Inc.'s ("Pfizer") Hospira Infusion Systems ("HIS") business. The HIS acquisition complements our legacy non-dedicated infusion sets and oncology business by expanding our product portfolio to include a complete intravenous infusion therapy product-line from solutions to pumps to non-dedicated infusion sets. Also in February 2017, we acquired Fannin (UK) Limited ("Fannin") to improve our distribution for infusion therapy consumable products to the healthcare sector in the United Kingdom and Ireland. In November 2017, we acquired Medical Australia Limited ("MLA") to improve our distribution for infusion therapy consumable products to the healthcare sector in the Australia and New Zealand. 
General Overview of Business
We are one of the world's leading pure-play infusion therapy companies with global operations and a wide-ranging product portfolio that includes IV solutions, IV smart pumps with pain management and safety software technology, dedicated and non-dedicated IV sets and needlefree connectors designed to help meet clinical, safety and workflow goals. 

Our primary customers are acute care hospitals, wholesalers, ambulatory clinics and alternate site facilities, such as clinics, home health care providers and long-term care facilities. We sell our products in more than 95 countries throughout the world. 
Products
Our primary product offerings are listed below, which we present in four product lines as follows:

Infusion Consumables
Infusion Therapy
Infusion therapy lines, used in hospitals and ambulatory clinics, consist of a tube running from a bottle or plastic bag containing a solution to a catheter inserted in a patient’s vein.  Our primary Infusion Therapy products are:

◦ | Clave needlefree products, including the MicroClave, MicroClave Clear, and NanoClave brand of connectors, accessories, extension and administration sets used for the administration of IV fluids and medications.


◦ | Neutron Catheter Patency Connector, used to help maintain patency of central venous catheters;

3


◦ | SwabCap Disinfecting Cap, used to protect and disinfect any needlefree connector including, including competitive brands of connectors;


◦ | Tego Hemodialysis Connector;


◦ | NovaCath® and SuperCath® Peripheral IV Catheters.

Closed System Transfer Devices (CSTD)
Closed System Transfer Devices (CSTD) are used to prepare and deliver hazardous medications such as those used in chemotherapy, which, if released, can have harmful effects to the healthcare worker and environment.  In 2007, we introduced the ChemoClave CSTD, which incorporates Clave technology, and in 2013, we introduced the ChemoLock CSTD.
Our primary products are:

◦ | ChemoLock CSTD, is a Pharmacy preferred CSTD used for the preparation and administration of hazardous drugs. ChemoLock limits the escape of hazardous drug or vapor concentrations, blocks the transfer of environmental contaminants into the system, and eliminates the risk of needlestick injury;


◦ | ChemoClave CSTD, is an ISO standard and universally compatible CSTD used for the preparation and administration of hazardous drugs. ChemoClave utilizes standard ISO luer locking connections, making it compatible with all brands of needlefree connectors and pump delivery systems. ChemoClave also limits the escape of hazardous drug or vapor concentrations, blocks the transfer of environmental contaminants into the system, and eliminates the risk of needlestick injury; 


◦ | Diana hazardous drug compounding system, used for the preparation of hazardous drugs. Diana is an automated sterile compounding system that incorporates ChemoClave and ChemoLock consumables for the accurate, safe, and efficient preparation of hazardous drugs. It is a user-controlled automated system that provides repeatable accuracy of drug mixes, minimizes clinician exposure to hazardous drugs while helping to maintain the sterility of the drugs being mixed. 

The preparation of hazardous drugs typically takes place in a pharmacy location where drugs are removed from vials and prepared for delivery to a patient. Those prepared drugs are then transferred to a nursing unit where the chemotherapy is administered via an infusion pump set to a patient. Components of the ChemoClave and ChemoLock product lines are used both in Pharmacy and on the nursing floors for the preparation and administration of hazardous drugs. 
IV Solutions


◦ | Sterile Solutions - IV solutions, normal saline, Ringers etc., used to replenish fluids and electrolytes by IV infusion.


◦ | Irrigation Solutions - Used externally on open wounds to hydrate the wound, remove deep debris, assist with visual examination, to prevent infection and improve healing.


◦ | Nutritionals - Solutions that feed vitamins, minerals and other natural therapeutic substances directly into the blood stream. We are committed to helping our customers deliver more comprehensive patient-care therapies, delivering an extensive source of nutrients for patients who cannot consume a normal diet. 

Infusion Systems
Infusion Pump Hardware - Our current pump platform includes four infusion pumps:

◦ | Plum 360™: The Plum 360™ infusion pump is an ICU Medical MedNet™ ready large volume infusion pump with an extensive drug library and wireless capability;


◦ | LifeCare PCA™: The LifeCare PCA™ infusion pump is an ICU Medical MedNet™ ready patient-controlled analgesia pump ("PCA");

4


◦ | SapphirePlus™: The SapphirePlus™ infusion pump is an ICU Medical MedNet™ ready large volume infusion pump with an extensive drug library and wireless capability. The SapphirePlus is designed and manufactured by Q Core Medical Ltd ("Q Core"); 


◦ | Sapphire™: The Sapphire™ infusion pump is a compact infusion system used in ambulatory and hospital settings. The Sapphire™ infusion pump comes in multi-therapy and epidural-only configurations. The Sapphire is designed and manufactured by Q Core. 


We offer the ICU Medical MedNet™ safety software system, which is designed for hospitals to customize intravenous drug dosage limits and track drug delivery to help prevent medication errors. 

Critical Care
Our critical care products are hemodynamic monitoring systems used to monitor vital signs as well as specific physiological functions of key organ systems.  Our primary Critical Care products are:

◦ | Hemodynamic Monitoring Systems;


• | Cogent® 2-in-1 Hemodynamic Monitoring System


• | LiDCO LX1TM Noninvasive Hemodynamic Monitoring System


• | CardioFlo® Hemodynamic Monitoring Sensor


• | TriOx® PICC Minimally Invasive Venous Oximetry Sensor


◦ | SafeSet® Closed Blood Sampling and Conservation System;


◦ | Transpac® Consumable Blood Pressure Transducers;


◦ | Q2 Plus™ CCO/SvO2 (continuous cardiac output/oximetry).

Financial information relating to our reporting segment and primary product lines is set forth in Part I, Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" and Item 7. "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
Recent Acquisitions
On February 1, 2017, we acquired Fannin (UK) Limited ("Fannin") for total consideration of approximately $1.5 million. Fannin provides infusion therapy consumable products to the healthcare sector in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
On February 3, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Pfizer's HIS business, a leading global provider of IV infusion therapy products to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home health care providers and long-term care facilities. Our acquisition of the HIS business was strategic and provides us with an increase in scale and product portfolio that we believe will result in a stronger competitive position within the industry. We believe the HIS business acquisition was the natural evolution for us based on a long-term successful and productive partnership with HIS for over 20 years.
On November 29, 2017, we acquired Medical Australia for total consideration of $9.0 million. Medical Australia delivers similar consumable Infusion products as our current businesses to Australia and surrounding regions.
In October 2015, we acquired Excelsior Medical Corporation’s SwabCap disinfecting cap for needlefree IV connectors to enhance our direct and OEM infusion therapy product offerings and to open new customer opportunities globally.
Manufacturing

As of December 31, 2017, we operate four primary manufacturing facilities globally, which are detailed in Part I, Item 2 of this report. We operate four main service centers globally. We also rely on certain outside manufacturers for certain product lines in IV Systems and IV Solutions.
Our four primary manufacturing sites are:
5


◦ | La Aurora de Heredia, Costa Rica, which manufactures most of our infusion pumps and dedicated disposables and well as infusion consumables products;


◦ | Ensenada, Mexico, which manufactures infusion consumables products;


◦ | Salt Lake City, Utah, which produces primarily our Clave family of products and sends those products to Costa Rica or Mexico;


◦ | Austin, Texas which produces our IV Solutions products.

We also assemble compounders in our leased facility in Ludenscheid, Germany and Salt Lake City, Utah.  The Sapphire™ family of pumps are manufactured by Q Core Medical, Ltd.

During 2017, we discontinued operations at our manufacturing facilities in San Cristobal, Dominican Republic, which was part of the HIS acquisition and transferred the assets and the production of Infusion Consumables to our plants in Costa Rica and Mexico.     
We have four main regional device service centers in San Jose, California; Sligo, Ireland; San Laurent, Quebec, Canada; and Botany, Australia. 
As part of our 2017 HIS business acquisition, we entered into two Manufacturing and Supply Agreements ("MSAs") under which, (i) Pfizer manufactures and supplies us with certain agreed upon products for an initial five-year term with a one-time two-year option to extend and (ii) we manufacture and supply Pfizer certain agreed upon products for a term of five or ten years depending on the product, with a one-time two-year option to extend. The initial supply price will be annually updated and is in full consideration for all costs associated with the manufacture, documentation, packaging and certification of the products.
Sales, Marketing and Administration

As of December 31, 2017, we employed 703 people worldwide in sales, marketing and administration.  We ship around the world with the majority of our sales denominated in U.S. dollars and Euro. 
Distribution 
Our products are marketed to medical product manufacturers, independent distributors and directly to end users.
The U.S. distribution of solutions, IV sets and accessories is supported by a network of three owned distribution centers acquired in the HIS business acquisition, which include King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; Los Angeles, California; and Dallas, Texas. We also acquired as part of the HIS business a number of public warehouses.
We also acquired as part of the HIS business a private fleet of tractors and trailers operated by contracted drivers that provide both over the road and local route needs. 
Internationally, we manage our operations through the Netherlands, which utilizes international regional hubs and we also manage operations through independent distributors.
Government Regulation

Our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and other federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign regulatory authorities. The FDA regulates, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacturing, approval, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion and marketing, distribution, post approval monitoring and reporting and import and export of medical devices and combination drug/device products in the U.S. to assure the safety and effectiveness of medical products for their intended use. The Federal Trade Commission also regulates the advertising of our products. Further, we are subject to laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse, which subject our sales and marketing, training and other practices to government scrutiny. 
U.S. Device Classification and Clearance
Unless an exemption applies, each new or significantly modified medical device we seek to commercially distribute in the U.S. will require either a premarket notification to the FDA requesting permission for commercial distribution under 
6

Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FDC Act") also referred to as a 510(k) clearance, or approval from the FDA of a pre-market approval ("PMA") application. 
Under the 510(k) process, applicants must demonstrate to the FDA that the device is as safe and effective as, or substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device, the “predicate” device. Applicants must submit performance data to establish substantial equivalence. In some instances, data from human clinical trials must also be submitted in support of a 510(k) premarket notification. If so, these data must be collected in a manner that conforms to the applicable Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) regulations. The FDA must issue a decision finding substantial equivalence before commercial distribution can occur. Changes to cleared devices that could not significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device can generally be made without additional 510(k) premarket notifications; otherwise, a new 510(k) is required.
In the PMA application process, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. This approval process applies to most Class III devices, and generally requires clinical data to support the safety and effectiveness of the device, obtained in adherence with IDE requirements. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds that there is a reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended purpose, and that the proposed manufacturing is in compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR). For novel technologies, the FDA will generally seek input from an advisory panel of medical experts and seek their views on the safety, effectiveness and benefit-risk of the device. The PMA process is generally more detailed, lengthier and more expensive than the 510(k) process, though both the 510(k) clearance and PMA processes can be expensive, and lengthy, and require payment of significant user fees, unless an exemption is available. 
Drug Regulation in the U.S. 
In the U.S., IV solutions are considered pharmaceutical products and subject to the same extensive pre- and post-market regulations by the FDA, as indicated above.
The pre-market approval process is a time-intensive multi-phased process. When successfully completed an application may be submitted to the FDA that includes detailed information relating to the product’s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. This application process may be subject to substantial fees. 
FDA approval is typically required before any new drug can be marketed. A New Drug Application ("NDA"), or an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA"), is typically required to be submitted to the FDA to obtain approval of pharmaceutical products. 
Before approval, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and are adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, the FDA may inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements. 
Post-Approval Regulation
 After the FDA permits a drug or device to enter commercial distribution, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. The FDA actively monitors regulations through review and inspection of design and manufacturing practices, recordkeeping, reporting of adverse events, labeling and promotional practices. The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA can take action against a company that promotes "off-label" uses. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain a company for certain violations of the FDC Act and regulations pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict a company from effectively marketing and selling its products, may limit a company's ability to obtain future premarket clearances or approvals, and could results in a substantial modification to the company's business practices and operations.           
Manufacturing Regulation
We must also comply with FDA, International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) and European Council Directive 93/42/EEC (“Medical Device Directive”) regulations governing medical device manufacturing practices.  The FDA, state, foreign agencies and ISO require manufacturers to register and subject manufacturers to periodic FDA, state, foreign 
7

agencies and ISO inspections of their manufacturing facilities.  We are a FDA and ISO registered medical device manufacturer, and must demonstrate that we and our contract manufacturers comply with the FDA’s QSR and current Good Manufacturing Practices ("cGMPs"). The FDA and regulatory agencies outside the U.S. monitor compliance with these requirements through inspections of manufacturing facilities.  If an inspector observes conditions that might be violative, the manufacturer must correct those conditions or explain them satisfactorily, or face potential regulatory action that might include physical removal of the product from the marketplace.

We believe that our products and procedures are in compliance with all applicable FDA and international regulations.  There is no assurance, however, that other products we are developing or products that we may develop in the future will be cleared by the FDA and classified as Class II products, or that additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products will not be promulgated by the FDA.  In addition, changes in FDA, ISO or other federal or state health, environmental or safety regulations or their applications could adversely affect our business.
To market our products in the European Community (“EC”), we must conform to additional requirements of the EC and demonstrate conformance to established quality standards and applicable directives.  As a manufacturer that designs, manufactures and markets its own devices, we must comply with the quality management standards of EN ISO 13485. Those quality standards are similar to the QSR regulations.

To market our products in the European Community (“EC”), manufacturers of medical devices must also conform to EC Directives such as Council Directive 93/42/EEC and their applicable annexes.  Those regulations assure that medical devices are both safe and effective and meet all applicable established standards prior to being marketed in the EC.  Once a manufacturer and its devices are in conformance with the Medical Device Directive, the “CE” Mark may be affixed to its devices.  The CE Mark gives devices unobstructed entry to all the member countries of the EC.

We have demonstrated conformity to the regulation of EN ISO 13485 and the Medical Device Directive and we affix the CE Mark to our device labeling for product sold in member countries of the EC.
We believe our products and systems are in compliance with all EC requirements.  There can be no assurance, however, that other products we are developing or products that we may develop in the future will conform or that additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products will not be promulgated by the EC.
Other Healthcare Laws 
We are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. These laws include:

◦ | the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act; 


◦ | federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;


◦ | the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier;


◦ | federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;


◦ | the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;

8


◦ | the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) information related to payments or other “transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals and ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members, and payments or other “transfers of value” to such physician owners; and


◦ | analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical and device companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to track and report information related to payments and other “transfers of value” to physicians and other healthcare providers or pricing, marketing expenditures and information; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.

Due to the breadth of these laws, the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, and the potential for additional legal or regulatory change in this area, it is possible that our sales and marketing practices and/or our relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers might be challenged under such laws. If our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business.
Coverage and Reimbursement; Cost Containment
Our profitability and operations are subject to changes in legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes in private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. Our products are purchased by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services and products provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for healthcare services and products from third-party payors is critical because it affects which products customer purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Third-party payors are increasingly reducing coverage and reimbursement for certain healthcare services and products and challenging prices charged for healthcare services and products. 
In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and coverage. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. In the U.S., there has been an increase in political support for controlling significant price increases of drug products, in particular due to high-profile cases that have gained national attention and triggered Congressional inquiries. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms in the reimbursement system in the U.S. and abroad or adverse decisions relating to coverage or reimbursement could have an impact on acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.
Competition
Our industry is highly competitive.  We believe our ability to effectively compete in this industry will be determined by our ability to provide a wide breadth of cost-effective, high quality products.  We believe the added breadth of our HIS business product portfolio has increased our competitiveness as we can now provide a one-stop shop for customers and offer more flexible competitive pricing.  We believe the infusion pump will also enable us to pull through a larger volume of higher margin infusion consumables.  In addition, we now have unified distribution channels after the HIS acquisition.
9

 Infusion Consumables
We believe that our ability to effectively compete in the Infusion Consumables market depends upon our ability to differentiate our products based on continued innovation, safety, quality, convenience, reliability, patent protection, ease of use and the pricing of our products, in addition to access to distribution channels.  We encounter significant competition in this market both from global, large, established medical device manufacturers and from smaller companies. We compete with products and systems marketed by Becton Dickinson ("BD"), Baxter International ("Baxter"), B. Braun Medical, Inc. ("B. Braun),  and Fresenius Kabi a division of Fresenius Group ("Fresenius").   Although we believe that our needlefree infusion devices and custom set manufacturing capabilities have distinct advantages over competing systems, there is no assurance that they will be able to compete successfully with these products.  Our CSTD used for the production and safe handling of oncology drugs, compete with similar products from BD, and B. Braun. We believe that our current CSTD product offering provides benefits over these competing systems in several areas related to safety, ease of use, quality, and cost; however, on-going innovation in this market space will be required, and there is no assurance that these innovations will be able to sustain continued growth. 
IV Solutions
We participate in the IV solutions only in the United States and Canada. Our primary competitors in the United States include Baxter, B. Braun and Fresenius.  Demand for IV solutions is typically high and raw materials required to produce IV solutions are readily available.  Our ability to compete will depend on our ability to maximize production, develop innovations in our product line, focus on cost-effectiveness and our ability to maintain the appropriate quality infrastructure.
Infusion Systems
We face strong global competitors including BD, Baxter, B. Braun, Smiths Medical and Fresenius.  These competitors benefit from greater financial, research and development and marketing resources than we have. The smart pump market in recent years has been troubled with security concerns, and product recalls. We believe our ability to effectively compete in this market segment will be determined by our ability to build our brand strength using the development of technological advancements aimed at increasing the quality, reliability and safety of our pumps while at the same time focusing on manufacturing efficiency and cost-effectiveness, which are operationally challenging with evolving product lines.
Critical Care
Our primary competitor in Critical Care is Edwards Lifesciences.
Patents

We have U.S. and/or certain foreign patents relating to the technologies found in the Clave / MicroClave Connector, MicroClave Clear Connector, Neutron Connector, CLC2000 Connector, Tego Connector, ChemoClave Technologies, ChemoLock Technologies, Click Lock Technology, SwabCaps, Custom Set Design and Manufacturing Methods, and Diana Hazardous Drug Compounding System. We have applications pending for additional U.S. and/or foreign patents on MicroClave Connector, Neutron Connector, Tego Connector, Y-Clave Connector with Integral Check Valve, ChemoClave Technologies, ChemoLock Technologies, and Diana Hazardous Drug Compounding System.

With the acquisition of HIS, we acquired rights, title and interest to a substantial number of patents and patent applications and related provisionals, divisionals, continuations, continuations-in-part, reissues, reexaminations, extensions, and substitutions of any of the foregoing (“Patent Rights”), that were primarily used or held for use by Pfizer in the HIS business. There is however, no single patent or group of patents that we acquired that we believe is material in relation to our business as a whole.
Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.  While we have obtained certain patents and applied for additional U.S. and foreign patents covering certain of our products, there is no assurance that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will prevent competitors from introducing similar devices or that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged.  Our patents are important in preventing others from introducing competing products that are as effective as our products.  The loss of patent protection on Clave/MicroClave, Neutron, ChemoClave and ChemoLock technologies, Custom Set Design and Manufacturing Systems could adversely affect our ability to exclude other manufacturers from producing effective competitive products and could have an adverse impact on our financial results. 
10

The fact that a patent is issued to us does not eliminate the possibility that patents owned by others may contain claims that are infringed by our products.

There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry.  Litigation, which would result in substantial cost to us and in diversion of our resources, may be necessary to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.  Adverse determinations in such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or could require us to seek licenses from third parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, we have initiated litigation, and may continue to initiate litigation in the future, to enforce our intellectual property rights against those we believe to be infringing on our patents.  Such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources.

Seasonality/Quarterly Results

There are no significant seasonal aspects to our business.  We can experience fluctuations in net sales as a result of variations in the ordering patterns of our largest customers, which may be driven more by production scheduling and their inventory levels, and less by seasonality.  Our expenses often do not fluctuate in the same manner as net sales, which may cause fluctuations in operating income that are disproportionate to fluctuations in our revenue.
Research and Development
Our research and development costs include personnel costs and expenses related to the development of new products. Research and development costs were $51.3 million in 2017, $13.0 million in 2016 and $15.7 million in 2015.
Employees
At December 31, 2017, we had 6,802 full-time employees, consisting of 5,817 in operations, quality control and regulatory, 703 engaged in sales, marketing and administration, and 282 in research and development. 
Geographic Data
Information regarding financial data by geography is set forth in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Available Information
Our website address is http://www.icumed.com.  We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  We also have our code of ethics posted on our website (http://www.icumed.com).  The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC on its website (http://www.sec.gov).
