Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business.
General
The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the “Company,” “we,” and “our”) was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.
Gap Inc. is a leading global apparel retail company. We offer apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, and children under the Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, Athleta, and Intermix brands. Our portfolio of distinct brands across multiple channels and geographies, combined with our size and scale which allows for strategic and advantageous partnerships with our third-party vendors and suppliers throughout the organization, gives us a competitive advantage in the global retail marketplace. 
Gap Inc. is an omni-channel retailer, with sales to customers both in stores and online, through Company-operated and franchise stores, websites, and third-party arrangements. Gap Inc. has Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Mexico. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, and Banana Republic stores throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, primarily at our Intermix brand.
Gap Inc. is a leader among apparel retailers in using omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores, creating world-class shopping experiences regardless of where or how our customers shop. The Company's suite of omni-channel services, including order-in-store, reserve-in-store, find-in-store, and ship-from-store, as well as enhanced mobile experiences, are uniquely tailored across its portfolio of brands.
Old Navy.  Old Navy is a global apparel and accessories brand that believes in the democracy of style, making high quality, must-have fashion essentials for the whole family, while delivering incredible value and fun, unique store experiences. Old Navy opened its first store in 1994 in the United States and since has expanded its international presence with Company-operated stores in Canada, China, and Mexico, as well as franchise stores in eight countries. Customers can purchase Old Navy products globally in Company-operated and franchise stores and online. 
Gap.  Gap is one of the world's most iconic apparel and accessories brands anchored in optimistic, casual, American style. Founded in San Francisco in 1969, the brand's collections continue to build the foundation of modern wardrobes - all things denim, tees, button-downs, and khakis, along with must-have trends.
Gap is designed to build the foundation of modern wardrobes through every stage of life with apparel and accessories for adult men and women under the Gap name, in addition to GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, and GapFit collections. Beginning in 1987 with the opening of the first store outside North America in London, Gap continues to connect with customers around the world through specialty stores, online, and franchise stores. In addition, we bring the brand to value-conscious customers, with exclusively designed collections for Gap Outlet and Gap Factory stores and websites. 
Banana Republic.  Acquired with two stores in 1983 as a travel and adventure outfitter, Banana Republic is now a global apparel and accessories brand focused on delivering versatile, contemporary classics, designed for today with style that endures. Banana Republic offers clothing and accessories with detailed craftsmanship and luxurious materials. Customers can purchase Banana Republic products globally in our specialty stores, online, and franchise stores. 
1

Athleta.  Athleta is a premium fitness and lifestyle brand creating versatile performance apparel to inspire a community of active, confident women and girls. Established in 1998 and acquired by Gap Inc. in 2008, Athleta integrates technical features and innovative design across its women's collection to carry her through a life in motion, from yoga, training and sports, to everyday activities and travel. In 2016, the company launched Athleta Girl, mirroring its signature performance in styles for the next generation. Customers can purchase Athleta products in the United States through its stores and catalogs, or globally through its website.
Athleta has been certified as a benefit corporation ("B Corp"), furthering our commitment to using our business as a force for good to drive social and environmental impact. We have met rigorous standards across social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Additionally, we have amended Athleta's legal charter to become a Delaware Public Benefit Corporation in order to further uphold our commitments to people and the planet. With this accreditation, Gap Inc. has become one of the largest publicly traded retail companies with a B Corp certified subsidiary apparel brand. We plan to leverage the learnings from Athleta as a case study for Gap Inc., providing a benchmark and roadmap of potential opportunities for greater social and environmental impact across the enterprise.
Intermix. Intermix curates must-have styles from the most coveted emerging and established designers. Known for styling on-trend pieces in unexpected ways, Intermix delivers a unique point of view and an individualized approach to shopping and personal style. Customers can shop in stores in the United States and Canada, and online.
The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.
We ended fiscal 2017 with 3,165 Company-operated stores and 429 franchise store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table in included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K.
Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, and Athleta each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company, with associated revenue sharing arrangements reflected in Gap Inc. operations. We also issue and redeem gift cards through our brands. 
Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading "Segment Information" in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.
Merchandise Vendors
We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from about 800 vendors. Our vendors have factories in about 50 countries. Our two largest vendors each accounted for about 5 percent of the dollar amount of our total fiscal 2017 purchases. Of our merchandise purchased during fiscal 2017, substantially all purchases, by dollar value, were from factories outside the United States. Approximately 25 percent and 22 percent of our fiscal 2017 purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in Vietnam and China, respectively. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from Vietnam, China, or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or taxes, or vendors potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing," "Risk Factors—Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business,” and “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.
Seasonal Business
Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period.
2

Brand Building
Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. With the exception of Intermix, virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. With respect to Intermix, we control all aspects of brand development except for product design related to third-party products. We continue to invest in our business and enhance the customer experience through significant investments in our supply chain and customer, digital, and omni-channel capabilities, investments in marketing, enhancement of our online shopping sites, remodeling of existing stores, and international expansion.
Trademarks and Service Marks
Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, GapFit, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, Intermix, and Weddington Way trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks and service marks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.
Franchising
We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, and Banana Republic stores in a number of countries throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.
Inventory
The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. Also see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed,” "Risk Factors—If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected," and "Risk Factors—Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.
Competitors
The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
Employees
As of February 3, 2018, we had a workforce of approximately 135,000 employees, which includes a combination of part-time and full-time employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak holiday selling season. 
To remain competitive in the retail apparel industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, supply chain, marketing, and other functions, as well as in our stores and distribution centers. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—The failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.
3

Available Information
We make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under “Investors,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.
Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Sustainability Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” Our Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the Code will also be available on the website.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following are our executive officers:
Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:
Arthur Peck, 62, Director, and President and Chief Executive Officer, Gap Inc. since February 2015; President, Growth, Innovation, and Digital division from 2012 to January 2015; President, Gap North America from 2011 to 2012; Executive Vice President of Strategy and Operations from 2005 to 2011; President, Gap Inc. Outlet from 2008 to 2011.
Mark Breitbard, 50, President and Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic since May 2017; Chief Executive Officer, The Gymboree Corporation from January 2013 to April 2017; President, Gap North America from 2012 to January 2013; Executive Vice President, Gap North America Merchandising from 2011 to 2012; Executive Vice President, GapKids and babyGap from 2010 to 2011.
Paul Chapman, 60, Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer since December 2015 (until April 2018); Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2014 to December 2015; Senior Vice President, Information Technology, from 2010 to December 2015; Vice President, Information Technology from 2004 to 2010.
Shawn Curran, 54, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations since October 2017; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain - Logistics and Product Operations from April 2016 to October 2017; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from August 2015 to April 2016; Senior Vice President, Logistics from 2012 to August 2015.
Sebastian DiGrande, 51, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Chief Customer Officer since May 2016; Senior Partner and Managing Director, the Boston Consulting Group from 1996 to April 2016.
Julie Gruber, 52, Executive Vice President, Global General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer since February 2016; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from March 2015 to February 2016; Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from 2007 to March 2015; Associate General Counsel from 2003 to 2007.
Brent Hyder, 53, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer since February 2018; Executive Vice President, Global Talent and Sustainability from May 2017 to February 2018; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Gap from June 2016 to May 2017; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Gap from September 2014 to June 2016; Vice President and General Manager, Gap Japan from February 2013 to September 2014; Vice President, Human Resources from May 2007 to February 2013.
Teri List-Stoll, 55, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2017; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc. from August 2015 to September 2016; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kraft Foods Group, Inc. from September 2013 to May 2015; Senior Vice President and Treasurer, Procter & Gamble Co. from 2008 to August 2013. 
Sonia Syngal, 48, President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Navy since April 2016; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations from February 2015 to April 2016; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from November 2013 to January 2015; Senior Vice President, Old Navy International from February 2013 to November 2013; Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Europe from 2011 to February 2013; Senior Vice President and General Manager, International Outlets from 2010 to 2011; Vice President of Global Production, Supply Chain - Outlet from 2006 to 2010.
4

