Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | BUSINESS

We develop and sell (i) versatile and high performance video delivery software, products, system solutions and services that enable our customers to efficiently create, prepare, store, playout and deliver a full range of high-quality broadcast and “over-the-top” (OTT) video services to consumer devices, including televisions, personal computers, laptops, tablets and smart phones and (ii) cable access solutions that enable cable operators to more efficiently and effectively deploy high-speed internet, voice and video services to consumers’ homes.
We operate in two segments, Video and Cable Edge. Our Video business sells video processing and production and playout solutions and services worldwide to cable operators and satellite and telecommunications (telco) pay-TV service providers, which we refer to collectively as “service providers,” and to broadcast and media companies, including streaming new media companies. Our Video business infrastructure solutions are delivered either through shipment of our products, software licenses or as software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) subscriptions. Our Cable Edge business sells cable access solutions and related services, including our CableOS software-based Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) solutions, primarily to cable operators globally.
Across our two business segments, we derived approximately 48% of our revenue from the Americas in 2017. The Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC) regions accounted for the remaining 33% and 19% of our 2017 revenue, respectively. 
Harmonic was initially incorporated in California in June 1988, and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1995. Our principal executive offices are located at 4300 North First Street, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 542-2500. Our Internet website is http://www.harmonicinc.com. Other than the information expressly set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the information contained or referred to on our website is not part of this report.
Industry Overview and Market Trends
Video Business
We believe our customers must continue to employ innovative technologies and services to address key trends in the dynamic video industry. 

▪ | Demand for Video Services Anytime, Anywhere, on any Device. In our ubiquitous multiscreen video environment, video programming and content needs to be transformed into multiple formats, bit rates and resolutions for display on a broad range of devices. 


▪ | Demand for High Quality Video. Consumer demand for high quality video anytime, anywhere and on any device requires ever-increasing bandwidth capacity in service providers’ networks, as well as technology that maximizes network bandwidth efficiency. With the advent of Ultra High Definition (Ultra HD) televisions and OTT services increasingly being rendered in “4K” high resolution and consuming approximately four times the bandwidth of traditional HD channels, we believe next generation compression technologies, such as High Efficiency VideoCompression (HEVC) or advances in H.264/AVC codecs, as well as increasing requirements for HDR encoding, will continue to remain a high priority for distributors of video. 


▪ | Streaming Video Service. Consumer demand for video download and streaming services from new media companies such as Netflix, Hulu, Google (YouTube), Amazon (Prime Video) and Apple (iTunes) continue to experience significant global growth. These and other similar services aggregate third-party and original content and stream video “over-the-top” (OTT) to any Internet-connected device utilizing Internet service providers’ networks at no incremental infrastructure cost to the consumer. 


▪ | Time-Shifted Viewing. “Time-shifting” technologies include digital video recorders (DVRs), cloud and network DVRs (cDVR and nDVR) that allow a subscriber to store programming on the service provider’s servers or in the cloud, and video-on-demand (VOD) services. 

In response to these trends and the success of new media OTT streaming companies, as well as the growing trend of “cord-cutting” (i.e., consumers canceling traditional pay-TV subscriptions in favor of streaming services) and the increasing number of “cord-nevers” (i.e., consumers who have never had a pay-TV subscription):
4

Table of Content


• | service providers and broadcast and media companies continue to provide more of their own OTT streaming video services, including OTT streaming of live (or “linear”) television programming;


• | service providers are competing to offer higher quality video signals in HD, including evolving initiatives to deliver video in 4K Ultra HD resolution;


• | service providers are developing and expanding their content delivery and Internet Protocol (IP) networks, and increasing the capacity and efficiency of their networks with investments in various delivery infrastructure technologies to, among other things, maximize video quality and minimize bandwidth utilization;


• | service providers continue to consolidate to achieve greater economies of scale and subscriber concentration, and acquire media companies to expand their content libraries and capabilities to develop original content;


• | service providers continue to enhance and differentiate their content offerings, either through in-house development of new content or through acquisitions of existing content brands; and


• | service providers have an ongoing need, despite the migration of traffic to OTT, to provide services over their existing broadcast distribution infrastructures.

We believe that the delivery of video over IP will continue to change traditional video viewing habits and distribution methods and may alter the traditional advertising and subscription business models of major service providers.
Our Video Markets
Service Providers

• | Cable Operators. Cable operators continue to focus on various initiatives to improve and differentiate their service offerings from competing service providers, including: bundled digital video, voice and high speed data services; expansion of VOD libraries and on-demand and streaming service offerings; upgraded consumer-facing applications; video delivery over IP to broadband enabled consumer devices; and capacity enhancement of high-speed data services. 


• | Satellite Operators. Satellite operators around the world have established digital television services that serve tens of millions of subscribers, with the ability to provide tens of thousands of linear channels. We believe these linear services will continue to grow, particularly in emerging markets, while, in parallel, satellite operators launch new streaming services, such as Sling TV and DirecTV Now, to address younger generation viewers and new consumption habits. 


• | Telcos. Telcos have established video offerings to successfully compete in the video marketplace, including high-quality HD content, larger VOD libraries, time-shifting television services, bundled voice, data and video packages and, more recently, streaming services. In many cases, telcos are making significant infrastructure investments to expand their video offerings into IP services and gain market share, while certain telcos are also acquiring satellite and/or cable companies to achieve market reach and scale. 

Broadcast and Media Companies

• | Network broadcasters, programmers and content owners require video contribution and distribution solutions to transmit live programming of news and sports to their studios for subsequent broadcast, and deliver the same programming and content to service providers for distribution to their subscribers. Broadcasters generally produce their own news and sports highlight content, along with hundreds of channels of network programming that is played-to-air under strict reliability requirements using playout servers and software.


• | With broadcast and media companies continuing to expand their offerings to support a wide range of live and linear content and making content available in higher quality video formats and on-demand, we believe these trends are accelerating demand for functionally collapsed playout systems with integrated media orchestration software, as well as increasing demand for media servers and video-optimized storage solutions equipped to support higher resolution formats. In addition, in order to achieve faster time-to-market and reduce operational costs, we believe content providers are adopting cloud-based technologies and transitioning portions of their operations into public cloud environments, thereby enabling expanded services at a more rapid pace, the distribution of video directly to consumers or to distributors over IP and public networks, and more efficient and scalable global operations. 


• | In the terrestrial broadcasting market, while broadcasters in various countries that have not yet completed converting from analog to digital transmission continue with change-over efforts, operators in numerous other

5

Table of Content

countries around the world are adopting the next generation of digital transmission technologies, such as the DVB-T2 standard and ATSC 3.0 standards. The ongoing conversion from analog to digital transmission and the adoption of next-generation transmission standards provides the opportunity to deliver new channels, HD and Ultra HD services, premium content, and interactive services. 
Over-the-Top (OTT)

• | According to a recent Cisco study, IP video traffic accounts for a significant majority of Internet traffic globally, and video traffic will only continue to increase for the foreseeable future. We believe service providers and broadcast and media companies with OTT services and offerings will continue to require high-quality video processing solutions and new technologies in order to process and distribute large amounts of live and VOD content from a wide variety of sources to a broad array of consumer devices, and to optimize adaptive bitrate video streaming quality and bandwidth utilization. 


• | With the continued proliferation of OTT streaming content and program channels similar to channels currently available from service providers, monetizing this content through the use of national, regionalized and personalized advertising delivered to the varied devices of individual viewers has become a key area of focus for companies with OTT offerings. We believe OTT ad insertion and other related content customization solutions will continue to attract increased investments from OTT companies.

Emerging Markets

• | With a growing middle class across emerging markets, we believe the Pay-TV business is poised for growth over the coming decade in the Asia Pacific region, South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Central and South America. We currently derive a meaningful portion of our revenue from countries in emerging markets.


• | Many consumers who are entering the middle class are now able to afford a monthly video service to gain access to their favorite programs and movies. We believe some of the leading video service providers serving emerging markets will experience high subscriber growth rates and may become worldwide industry leaders. 


• | We believe subscribers in these markets will demand increasingly sophisticated video services over time as consumer consumption trends in these markets track to those in more developed markets. As a result, we believe that the infrastructure and technology investments of these service providers and new market entrants are likely to grow significantly for the foreseeable future.


• | Media companies addressing emerging markets are aggressively investing in the creation of new content, particularly content that is localized and responsive to consumer demands, with the goal of creating strong brands and a growing, loyal customer base. We believe that this growth in content creation will require these media companies to significantly increase their investments in video storage, processing and related technologies.

Video Infrastructure Technology Trends 

• | Network Function Virtualization. We believe there is industry momentum towards network function virtualization, whereby core video chain functions are being re-engineered and collapsed to run on the latest Intel processors in order to leverage high-performance and scalable appliance-based hardware, and as software-only virtual instances designed to run on private or public cloud environments. 


• | Unified Video Playout & Processing Systems. In light of more complicated workflows inherent in managing the delivery of greater quantities of content across multiple formats to a growing population of set-top-boxes and consumer electronic devices, we believe the industry is moving towards unified video processing systems. These systems integrate what had been historically discrete hardware video processing functions into software, enabling significant cost efficiencies, greater flexibility and improved business agility across the entire video workplace. A unified video processing system also requires software-based channel origination and playout capabilities, with integrated functionality such as graphics and branding insertion and media orchestration, and an integrated control system that streamlines playout processes, improves video quality, enables time-shift and cDVR functionality, while reducing server overhead. Also, when playout functionality is deployed to the cloud, the compression and OTT packaging and origin functionality (in addition to the capability to distribute over traditional broadcast distribution networks) associated with the playout will necessarily also need to be deployed in the cloud. 


• | By combining historically discrete video chain functions into a unified playout and distribution system where content can be ingested, formatted, stored, played-to-air and compressed, packaged and delivered, we believe functionally collapsed video playout infrastructures with integrated control systems will enable content providers

6

Table of Content

to produce more channels in higher resolution formats faster and more cost-effectively, and provide content in the widest possible range of formats. 
Cable Edge Business 
Industry Challenges
Cable operators continue to face challenges from the rapid growth of demand for broadband bandwidth in their networks, driven primarily by:

• | more users with more connected devices and applications;


• | bundled digital video, voice and high speed data services; and


• | bandwidth-intensive VOD and OTT streaming video services, and cloud applications.

In addition, the operation of network infrastructure is space, power and personnel intensive. Hardware-centric networks can also be expensive to update or replace.  To remain competitive, especially in the face of heightened competition from non-cable service providers such as telcos to deliver gigabit data rates, cable operators need to incur significant capital expenditures to upgrade existing equipment and network technologies.
Technology Trends

• | CCAP. In order to deliver gigabit data rates, cable operators are aggressively driving broadband access technologies such as the Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) architecture. The CCAP architecture combines edge “quadrature amplitude modulation” (QAM) and “cable modem termination system” (CMTS) functions in a single solution in order to combine resources for video and data services. 


• | DOCSIS 3.1. We believe the cable industry will move rapidly to DOCSIS 3.1, which enables increased bandwidth data transfer over existing broadband infrastructure. 


• | Virtualization. We believe cable operators are moving toward more software-driven architectures. Virtualized software solutions that are decoupled from underlying hardware and run on commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) servers allow for significantly increased efficiencies, upgradability, configuration flexibility, service agility and scalability not feasible with hardware-centric approaches. We believe a software-based, centralized CCAP-based system can significantly reduce cable headend costs, especially costs related to physical space and power consumption, and increase operational efficiency, and that the deployment of these systems will be an important step in cable operators’ transition to all-IP networks. 


• | Distributed Architecture. In addition to centralized CCAP systems, we believe there is growing interest in distributed Remote PHY solutions, particularly in competitive gigabit service markets where cable operators are competing with fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) services and are extending fiber networks deeper into their access networks. A Remote PHY architecture, which involves COTS servers running virtualized CCAP core software at a headend and the distribution of Remote PHY nodes closer to end users, alleviates the power and space requirements of centralized systems at headend sites due to the fact that the RF processing is distributed into the field outside of the headend. We believe this distributed architecture will enable service providers to efficiently scale to support data and IP video growth. 

Our Products and Solutions
Video Processing and Delivery Solutions
We offer a range of products and solutions that address the demand and market trends shaping our industry, including next-generation software-based media processing platforms. Our video processing solutions, which include network management software and application software and hardware products, provide our customers with the ability to acquire a variety of signals from different sources and in different protocols in order to deliver a variety of real-time and stored content to their subscribers for viewing on a broad range of devices.
Cloud media processing.  An increasing number of service providers and media professionals are looking to cloud-based architectures for their media processing workflows, which is a fundamental shift from traditional, hardware-based approaches. We have addressed, and continue to address, this changing landscape with our VOS Software Cluster (formerly VOS Cloud) software application, which transforms traditional video preparation and delivery architectures into a fully integrated set of cloud-native functions, accelerating the time to market for new broadcast and OTT services. Our VOS 360 offering provides these same capabilities through our software-as-a-service solution. We are also seeing customer demand for cloud-like 
7

Table of Content

functionality but for deployment in traditional data centers, without the complexity and cost associated with a formal private cloud infrastructure. We address customers with these needs with our VOS Software Cluster software application which is compatible with traditional data center architectures.
Broadcast and distribution encoders.  Our high-performance encoders compress video, audio and data channels to low bit rates while maintaining high video quality. Our latest software-based Electra encoders can deliver video in multiple formats, including standard, HD and Ultra HD, and in any video compression standard, including MPEG-2, MPEG-4 AVC and HEVC. This capability allows the encoders to converge workflows targeted for all forms of video delivery, whether broadcast, cable, satellite, IPTV or OTT. Today’s Electra and VOS solutions all leverage the Harmonic PURE Compression Engine, a software-based technology that incorporates many of the encoding algorithm and processing techniques developed by Harmonic over the past two decades. The benefits of the PURE Compression Engine include a faster rate of video quality innovation, the ability to dynamically balance workflow efficiency and resource utilization, and improved investment protection. Our EyeQ real-time content-aware encoding solution is an optional enhancement for systems featuring PURE Compression. The EyeQ compression solution leverages the mechanics of the human eye to assess video quality and optimize encoding parameters in real time. Our VOS Software Cluster software application supports a subset of broadcast and distribution encoding functionality.
Contribution encoders.  Our ViBE contribution encoders provide broadcasters with video compression solutions for real-time news gathering, live sports coverage and other remote events, and enable our customers to deliver these feeds to their studios for further processing. Our latest models can encode HD and Ultra HD video signals in HEVC or AVC 4:2:2 10-bit resolution, enabling the transmission of very high-quality video with low latency. Broadcasters and other operators also use our contribution encoders for delivery of their programming to their customers, which are typically cable, telco and satellite operators.
Multiscreen transcoders and stream processing.  We offer high-density, real-time transcoding of video for broadcast and OTT delivery with our Electra XT Xtream transcoder. This scalable platform is designed to accelerate time to market for operators faced with fast channel lineup growth and a rise in multiscreen applications. Our latest ProStream X and ProStream XVM real-time stream processing systems are software-based and provide high-performance, high-throughput processing for mission-critical IP video delivery applications, including multiplexing, scrambling, splicing and blackout switching. Our VOS Software Cluster software application supports multiscreen transcoding and stream processing.
Multiscreen delivery.  Our VOS Software Cluster software application enables the packaging and delivery of high-quality OTT services, including live streaming, VOD, catch-up TV, start-over TV, nDVR and cDVR services through hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) streaming to any device. Capabilities include real-time and file-based transcoding, stream packaging, and multiscreen workflow management, as well as support for digital rights management (DRM) processes with a number of DRM partners. Our VOS Software Cluster application ingests transcoded, segmented and encrypted output from Electra systems to provide high-volume live adaptive bitrate streaming and the delivery of time-shifted services. 
Decoders and descramblers. Our family of ProView integrated receivers-decoder (IRD) products allows service providers to acquire content delivered via satellite, IP or terrestrial networks for distribution to their subscribers. These products, including the ProView 7100 and ProView 8100, are used by broadcasters to decode signals backhauled from live news and sporting events in contribution applications, as well as by content owners looking to distribute their content in a controlled manner to a large base of video service providers. Our VOS Software Cluster software applications support a subset of these decoding and descrambling capabilities.
Video servers.  Our video playout solutions, including media orchestration software, are based on scalable video servers used by broadcast and media companies to create and playout television channels. Our Spectrum family of video server systems are used by broadcast and media companies to create play-to-air television channels. Our customers typically use these video server products to record incoming content from either live feeds or from tapes, encoding that content in real-time into standard media files that are then stored in the server’s file system until the content is needed for playback as part of a scheduled playlist. Clips stored in the server are decoded in real-time and played-to-air according to a playout schedule in a frame-accurate, back-to-back manner to create a seamless television channel. Our Spectrum servers support SD, HD and Ultra HD programming, as well as many different media formats. Our Polaris media orchestration software solutions work with our Spectrum products and provide our customers with playout management and control tools for channel-in-a-box and integrated channel playout applications. Our VOS Software Cluster software application supports a subset of these video server functionalities.
Video-optimized Storage
MediaGrid. Our MediaGrid shared storage system is a scale-out, network-attached storage system with a built-in media file system optimized for media production workflows. Architected as a clustered storage system with a distributed file system, 
8

Table of Content

MediaGrid provides highly scalable storage capacity and access bandwidth to support demanding media production applications, such as video editing, content transformation and media library management. In addition, MediaGrid systems are increasingly being employed for VOD, time-shifted television services and OTT adaptive bitrate streaming. Our VOS Software Cluster software application relies on external infrastructure for storage, and is compatible with MediaGrid video-optimized storage when deployed into a customer’s traditional data center environment.
Unified Video Playout and Processing SaaS
Cloud-native SaaS solutions. Our VOS360 service provides the functionality of our VOS Software Cluster in public cloud environments and is designed to be deployable in any public cloud infrastructure. With the VOS360 service, the maintenance operations of the VOS Software Cluster are the responsibility of Harmonic.
Cable Edge Products and Solutions
Software-Based CCAP Solution. As demand continues to rapidly grow for high-speed broadband services such as OTT streaming, VOD, time-shift TV and cloud DVR, we believe we can help cable operators take advantage of this opportunity with our CableOS software-based CCAP, an end-to-end cable access solution that we believe delivers unprecedented scalability, agility and cost savings. CableOS enables the migration to multi-gigabit broadband capacity and the fast deployment of DOCSIS 3.1 data, video and voice services. We believe the solution resolves space and power constraints in the headend and hub, eliminates dependence on hardware upgrade cycles, and reduces total cost of ownership. Our CableOS solution can be deployed based on a centralized, distributed Remote PHY or hybrid architecture.
Edge QAM products. Our Narrowcast Services Gateway (NSG) products are fully integrated edge gateway products that integrate routing, multiplexing, scrambling and modulation into a single package for the delivery of narrowcast services to subscribers over cable networks. NSG systems allow cable operators to deliver IP signals from the headend to the edge of the network for subsequent modulation onto a HFC network. Originally developed for VOD applications, the NSG has evolved to support multiple applications, including switched digital video and modular CMTS applications, as well as large-scale VOD deployments.
CCAP systems are expected to, over time, replace and make obsolete current cable edge QAM products, as well as current CMTS products, since fully compliant CCAP-based solutions will combine the functionality of these products into one solution. Since we historically have not addressed the CMTS market, we believe that our CableOS solution, which includes a software-based CMTS, will have an opportunity to be sold into a significantly larger and growing market created by the CCAP standard as well as the distributed Remote PHY architecture, with Remote PHY nodes replacing traditional optical nodes.
Technical Support and Professional Services 
We provide maintenance and support services to most of our customers under service level agreements that are generally renewed on an annual basis. We also provide consulting, implementation and integration services to our customers worldwide. We draw upon our expertise in broadcast television, communications networking and compression technology to design, integrate and install complete solutions for our customers, including integration with third-party products and services. We offer a broad range of services, including program management, technical design and planning, building and site preparation, integration and equipment installation, end-to-end system testing and comprehensive training.
Customers
We sell our products to a variety of cable, satellite and telco, and broadcast and media companies. Set forth below is a representative list of our significant end user and integrator/reseller customers, based, in part, on revenue during 2017.
9

Table of Content


United States | International 
AT&T | Accenture BV 
Charter Communications | Bell Expressvu Inc. 
Comcast | Com Hem 
Cox Communication | Groupe Canal +SA 
DigitalGlue | Huawei Technnologies Co. Ltd. 
Dish Network | M7 Group SA 
Heartland Video Systems | Nagravision SA Kudelski Group 
Ion Media Networks | Netorium GMBH 
Turner Broadcasting | SCSK Corp. 
Univision | Sky Servicos De Banda Larga LTDA

Sales to our 10 largest customers in 2017, 2016 and 2015 accounted for approximately 24%, 28% and 32% of our net revenue, respectively. Although we continue to seek to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets and further expanding internationally, we expect to see continuing industry consolidation and customer concentration.
During 2017 and 2016, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. During 2015, revenue from Comcast accounted for approximately 12% of our net revenue, respectively. The loss of any significant customer, or any material reduction in orders from any significant customer, or our failure to qualify our new products with any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we are involved in most quarters in one or more relatively large individual transactions. A decrease in the number of relatively larger individual transactions in which we are involved in any quarter could adversely affect our operating results for that quarter.
Sales and Marketing
In the U.S. and internationally, we sell our products through our own direct sales force, as well as through independent resellers and systems integrators. Our direct sales team is organized geographically and by major customers and markets to support customer requirements. Our principal sales offices outside of the U.S. are located in Europe and Asia, and we have a support center in Switzerland to support our international customers and operations. Our international resellers are generally responsible for importing our products and providing certain installation, technical support and other services to customers in their territory after receiving training from us. 
Our direct sales force and resellers are supported by a highly trained technical staff, which includes application engineers who work closely with our customers to develop technical proposals and design systems to optimize system performance and economic benefits for our customers. Our technical support teams provide a customized set of services, as required, for ongoing maintenance, support-on-demand and training for our customers and resellers, both in our facilities and on-site.
Our product management organization develops strategies for product lines and markets and, in conjunction with our sales force, identifies the evolving technical and application needs of customers so that our product development resources can be most effectively and efficiently deployed to meet anticipated product requirements. Our product management organization is also responsible for setting price levels, demand forecasting and general support of the sales force, particularly at major accounts. 
Our corporate marketing organization is responsible for building awareness of the Harmonic brand in our markets and driving engagement with our strategies, solutions and products. The group develops all of our corporate messaging and manages all customer and industry communication channels, including public relations, Web and social media, events and trade shows, as well as demand generation marketing campaigns in conjunction with our sales force.
Manufacturing and Suppliers
We rely on third-party contract manufacturers to assemble our products and the subassemblies and modules for our products. In 2003, we entered into an agreement with Plexus Services Corp. to act as our primary contract manufacturer. Plexus currently provides us with a majority, of the products we purchase from our contract manufacturers. This agreement has automatic annual renewals, unless prior notice for nonrenewal is given, and has been automatically renewed for a term expiring in October 2018. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers.
Many components, subassemblies and modules necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products are obtained 
10

Table of Content

from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. While we expend considerable efforts to qualify additional component sources, consolidation of suppliers in the industry and the small number of viable alternatives have limited the results of these efforts. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers.
Intellectual Property
As of December 31, 2017, we held 74 issued U.S. patents and 46 issued foreign patents and had 94 patent applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the claims, or the scope of the claims, sought by us, if at all. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in which we do business or may do business in the future.
We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers as needed, and generally limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. However, no assurances can be given that these actions will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, if necessary, we are prepared to take legal action, in the future, to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including management time, and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows.
In order to successfully develop and market our products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into such technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements can be negotiated on reasonable terms or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could harm our business.
Backlog
We schedule production of our products and solutions based upon our backlog, open contracts, informal commitments from customers and sales projections. Our backlog consists of firm purchase orders by customers. Approximately 76% of our backlog is projected to be converted to revenue within a rolling one-year period. Our backlog, including deferred revenue at December 31, 2017 was $224.4 million. Delivery schedules on such orders may be deferred or canceled for a number of reasons, including reductions in capital spending by our customers or changes in specific customer requirements. In addition, due to annual capital spending budget cycles at many of our customers, the amount of our backlog at any given time is not necessarily indicative of actual revenues for any succeeding period.
Competition
The markets for video infrastructure systems are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change and declining average selling prices. The principal competitive factors in these markets include product performance, functionality and features, reliability, pricing, breadth of product offerings, brand recognition and awareness, sales and distribution capabilities, technical support and services, and relationships with end customers. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. 
Our competitors in our Video business segment include vertically integrated system suppliers, such as Arris Group, Cisco Systems and Ericsson (which recently announced the sale of majority stake in its video technology business to a private equity firm), and, in certain product lines, other companies including ATEME and Elemental Technologies (an Amazon Web Services company). With respect to production and playout products, competitors include Evertz Microsystems, EVS, Grass Valley (a Belden brand) and Imagine Communications. Our competitors in our Cable Edge business include Arris, Casa Systems and Cisco Systems. In the OTT market, our competitors include internally developed technologies and solutions by companies such as Netflix, Facebook, Google and Microsoft, as well as end-to-end online video platforms such as Brightcove, who provide comprehensive OTT infrastructure solutions, some of which overlap with our products and services.
Consolidation in the industry has led to the acquisition of a number of our historic competitors over the last several years. 
11

Table of Content

For example, Motorola Home, BigBand Networks and C-Cor were acquired by Arris; NDS and Scientific Atlanta were acquired by Cisco Systems; Envivio and Tandberg Television were acquired by Ericsson; Elemental Technologies was acquired by Amazon; and Miranda Technologies and Grass Valley were acquired by Belden Inc. Consequently, some of our principal competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have.
Research and Development
We have historically devoted a significant amount of our resources to research and development. Research and development expenses in 2017, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $96.0 million, $98.4 million and $87.5 million, respectively. Research and development expenses as a percent of revenue in 2017, 2016 and 2015 were approximately 26.8%, 24.2% and 23.2%, respectively. Our internal research and development activities are conducted primarily in the United States (California, Oregon and New Jersey), France, Israel and Hong Kong. In addition, a portion of our research and development is conducted through third-party partners with engineering resources in Ukraine and in India. 
Our research and development program is primarily focused on developing new products and systems, and adding new features and other improvements to existing products and systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems, in both software and hardware solutions, that are, or are expected to be, needed by our customers. For our Video business segment, our current research and development efforts are focused on next-generation video processing and delivery across different deployment environments, particularly cloud-native and SaaS delivery models, and enhanced video compression, video quality, and multiscreen solutions. We also devote significant resources to production and playout and distribution solutions. With respect to our Cable Edge business segment, our major research and development efforts are focused on cable edge solutions for both video and data, particularly the ongoing development of our centralized and distributed CableOS software-based CCAP solutions.
Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and sales and marketing. Because of the complexity inherent in such research and development efforts, we cannot assure you that we will successfully develop new products, or that new products developed by us will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to successfully develop and introduce new products would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we employed a total of 1,244 full time employees, including 473 in research and development, 216 in sales, 301 in service and support, 66 in operations, 61 in marketing (corporate and product) and 127 in a general and administrative capacity. Of those employees, 435 were located in the U.S. and 809 employees were located in foreign countries in South America, the Middle East, Europe, Asia and Canada. From time to time, we also employ a number of temporary employees and consultants on a contract basis. Our employees in France are represented by labor unions and an employee works council. None of our other employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
12

Table of Content

