Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business
Overview
We are a clinical stage biotechnology company developing first-in-class antibody product candidates focused on unmet medical needs in inflammation. We develop our product candidates to address emerging biological targets using our proprietary antibody discovery technology platform, which is based upon a breakthrough understanding of the natural process of antibody generation, known as somatic hypermutation, or SHM, and replicates this natural process of antibody generation in vitro. Our strategy is to advance the development and commercialization of our proprietary product candidates, and for certain programs, establish partnerships with leading biopharmaceutical companies where we retain certain development and commercialization rights in the United States. 
Our most advanced wholly-owned antibody programs, ANB020 and ANB019, neutralize therapeutic targets that are genetically associated with severe inflammatory disorders in humans. ANB020 inhibits the activity of the interleukin-33 cytokine, or IL-33, for the treatment of moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis, severe adult peanut allergy and severe adult eosinophilic asthma. We have completed a Phase 1 trial of ANB020 in healthy volunteers in Australia, the results of which were presented at the 2017 American Academy of Dermatology, or AAD, Annual Meeting and the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, or AAAAI, 2017 Annual Meeting in March 2017. We believe the results of this Phase 1 trial demonstrate a favorable safety profile of ANB020, which was well-tolerated and for which no dose-limiting toxicities were observed, and favorable pharmacodynamic properties of ANB020, where a single dose was sufficient to suppress IL-33  function for approximately three months post-dosing as measured by an ex vivo pharmacodynamic assay. We have subsequently completed a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in 12 moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis patients, under an approved Clinical Trial Authorisation, or CTA, with the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, announced top-line data from an interim analysis of this trial in October 2017 and presented data upon completion of this trial at the 2018 AAD Annual Meeting on February 17th 2018.
The Phase 2a proof-of-concept trial enrolled 12 moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis patients, who were initially administered a single intravenous dose of placebo within 14 days of enrollment, followed by a single intravenous 300mg dose of ANB020 one week subsequent to placebo. Prior to enrollment in the study, patients were not permitted any systemic or topical medications during a wash-out period. Patients were permitted to take a monitored amount of topical corticosteroids as rescue therapy during the course of the study. Clinical response was assessed by a number of endpoints, including the improvement of each patient’s Eczema Area Severity Index, or EASI, score, a tool used to measure the extent and severity of atopic dermatitis, at key time points following ANB020 administration relative to their enrollment baseline. The average baseline EASI score at enrollment amongst all 12 patients was 32. Other efficacy endpoints measured during the trial included the 5-dimensional pruritus (5-D pruritus) scale which measures itchiness, the 5-point Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) scale, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and the SCORing Atopic Dermatitis (SCORAD) scale. Exploratory mechanistic biomarkers included granulocyte infiltration and cytokine levels in localized skin lesions measured five days after placebo administration and five days after ANB020 administration.
We believe these data demonstrate proof-of-concept for ANB020 in moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis and suggest that ANB020 may provide meaningful differentiation in terms of patient convenience. As further development in atopic dermatitis, we plan to initiate, during the first half of 2018, a Phase 2b randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in 200-300 adults patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis to evaluate different dose levels and dosing frequencies of subcutaneous administration of ANB020, with data expected in 2019.
We have completed enrollment, under our Investigational New Drug application, or IND, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, of a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 with 20 severe adult peanut allergy patients where efficacy is assessed by measuring the cumulative dose of peanut tolerated in an oral food challenge, or OFC, within one month before and within one month after a single dose of ANB020 or placebo. This trial randomizes severe adult peanut allergy patients, each of which have a history of anaphylaxis to accidental peanut exposure, to drug versus placebo on a 3 versus 1 ratio. Top-line data from this trial is expected in March 2018. 
We are enrolling, under a CTA with MHRA, of a randomized, placebo controlled Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in 24 severe adult eosinophilic asthma patients, where efficacy will be assessed using improvement in Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second after administration of a single dose of ANB020 or placebo. Top-line data are anticipated during the second quarter of 2018.
2

ANB019 inhibits the interleukin-36 receptor, or IL-36R, for the treatment of rare inflammatory diseases including generalized pustular psoriasis, or GPP, and palmo-plantar pustular psoriasis, or PPP. We have completed, under an approved Clinical Trial Notification, or CTN, a Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers, where 48 subjects are dosed with ANB019 and 24 are dosed with placebo in single and multi-dose cohorts at various subcutaneous and intravenously administered dose levels. In November 2017, we announced positive top-line results from an interim analysis, which showed favorable safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic properties that support advancement of ANB019 into Phase 2 studies for GPP and PPP during 2018. We have submitted a CTA filing to the MHRA supporting the initiation of a 10-patient open-label multi-dose Phase 2 study of ANB019 in GPP patients. We anticipate filing an additional CTA application to support the initiation of a placebo-controlled multi-dose study of ANB019 in PPP.
In addition to ANB020 and ANB019, our wholly-owned pipeline includes novel checkpoint receptor agonist antibodies that we believe are applicable for treatment of certain autoimmune diseases where immune checkpoint receptors are insufficiently activated, and have demonstrated efficacy in an animal model of graft-versus-host disease, where we anticipate filing an IND in the second half of 2019.
In addition to our wholly-owned antibody programs, multiple AnaptysBio-developed antibody programs have been advanced to preclinical and clinical milestones under our collaborations. Our collaborations include an immuno-oncology-focused collaboration with TESARO, Inc. and TESARO Development, Ltd., or collectively, TESARO and an inflammation-focused collaboration with Celgene Corporation, or Celgene. For more information about these collaborations, see “— Collaborations”.
Our Product Candidates
We have developed, and will continue to develop, antibody product candidates that leverage emerging insights into biological mechanisms to treat severe diseases with unmet medical need. The following table summarizes certain key information about our wholly-owned and partnered product candidates:
Our most advanced, wholly-owned product candidates are summarized below:

• | ANB020 is a potentially first-in-class antibody that inhibits the activity of IL-33, a pro-inflammatory cytokine that multiple studies have indicated is a central mediator of atopic diseases, including atopic dermatitis, food allergies and asthma. IL-33 directly mediates release of disease-associated cytokines, which recruit pro-inflammatory cells that mediate atopic disease. Because ANB020 inhibits IL-33 function, and acts upstream broadly across the key cell types

3

and cytokines involved in atopy, we believe that its mechanism has advantages in the treatment of atopic diseases over competing agents that block only a subset of the cytokines responsible for atopic diseases. The role of IL-33 signaling in asthma and atopic dermatitis has been genetically validated through human studies published in the medical literature. 

• | ANB019 is an antibody that inhibits the function of IL-36R, which we are initially developing as a potential first-in-class therapy for GPP and PPP patients. GPP is a life-threatening, rare, systemic inflammatory disorder with no approved therapies. Studies have shown that GPP can be associated in some patients with mutations that lead to abnormally high signaling through the IL-36R, which we believe can be addressed by treatment with ANB019 irrespective of whether a GPP patient has a mutated IL-36R signaling pathway. PPP is a non-fatal form of pustular psoriasis and is believed to be caused by increased systemic levels of interleukin-36 resulting in inflammatory pustules on the hands and feet of patients that cause significant inability to stand, walk or do manual work, which we believe can be addressed by treatment with ANB019. We believe ANB019 is the most advanced therapeutic antibody targeting IL-36R in development. The FDA may grant Orphan Drug Designation to a drug intended to treat a disease or condition that generally affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States.


• | Checkpoint receptor agonist antibodies are being developed by AnaptysBio to multiple different immune checkpoint receptors for the treatment of certain autoimmune diseases where we believe checkpoint receptor function is insufficiently activated. Known human immune checkpoint receptors include CTLA-4, PD-1, LAG-3, BTLA, TIM-3 and TIGIT. We have discovered certain checkpoint receptor agonist antibodies that have demonstrated efficacy in a rodent model of graft-versus-host disease. We anticipate filing an IND for one such checkpoint agonist antibody in the second half of 2019. 

Our Strategy 
We are a leading antibody development company with a pipeline of novel therapeutic antibodies, which is being further expanded by applying our technology platform to emerging biological targets. The key elements of our strategy include: 

• | Advancing our wholly-owned lead product candidates to clinical milestones. We are working to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our wholly-owned pipeline programs, and have completed a Phase 1 trial of ANB020 in healthy volunteers in Australia, which we believe has demonstrated favorable safety and ex vivo pharmacodynamic properties. We have completed a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in patients with moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis where top-line data efficacy was announced in October 2017 and completed trial data was presented at the 2018 AAD Annual Meeting, and have completed enrollment of a severe adult peanut allergy Phase 2a trial where top-line data is anticipated in March 2018 and a severe adult eosinophilic asthma Phase 2a trial where enrollment is ongoing and top-line data is anticipated during the second quarter of 2018. We have conducted, under an approved CTN, a Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers to assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ANB019 and have announced top-line data from this trial in November 2017. We plan to initiate Phase 2 studies of ANB019 in GPP and PPP patients during 2018, subject to clearance of applicable regulatory filings.


• | Continuing to expand our proprietary pipeline by generating new product candidates using our technology platform. Using our proprietary SHM antibody generation platform, we are able to rapidly develop novel antibodies against biological targets. Our goal is to continue expanding our wholly-owned new therapeutic antibody program pipeline by innovating one or more wholly-owned novel pipeline antibodies to potentially first-in-class immune-related targets.


• | Identifying emerging opportunities in key therapeutic areas. We intend to remain at the forefront of discovery and development of new therapeutic opportunities in inflammation by understanding and translating biological breakthroughs into first-in-class therapeutic antibodies. Our approach includes translational biology assessments, such as human genetics, ex vivo tissue pathology and target expression patterns, to understand the relevance of emerging targets to patients with unmet medical needs. We plan to leverage this knowledge to create new product candidates and position our current and future programs for rapid initial efficacy assessment.


• | Retaining rights to strategic products in key commercial markets. We intend to retain ownership and control of our pipeline programs to key preclinical and clinical data inflection points. We may build sales and marketing capabilities in the United States with a focused commercial organization. For certain programs, we plan to seek strategic collaborations that provide us with funding, infrastructure and marketing resources to advance through development and commercialization.

4

Milestones
The following chart describes milestones achieved during fiscal 2017 and anticipated during fiscal 2018 and 2019:

Program | Milestone | Timing 
ANB020 (Anti-IL-33) | Atopic Dermatitis Phase 2a Data | Presented at AAD February 2018
Peanut Allergy Top-Line Phase 2a Data | March 2018 
Eosinophilic Asthma Top-line Phase 2a Data | Q2 2018 
Atopic Dermatitis Phase 2b Data | 2019 
ANB019 (Anti-IL-36R) | Healthy Volunteer Top-line Phase I Data | Announced November 2017 
GPP Phase 2 Initiation | 2018 
PPP Phase 2 Initiation | 2018 

Our Wholly-Owned Product Pipeline
Our most advanced, wholly-owned pipeline programs, ANB020 and ANB019, are described below:
ANB020: Anti-IL-33 Antibody
ANB020 is a potentially first-in-class antibody that inhibits the activity of IL-33 and is being developed to treat atopic diseases, including moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis, severe adult peanut allergy and severe adult eosinophilic asthma. Despite the key role of IL-33 in atopic diseases, it has been historically difficult for other antibody technologies to generate a functional anti-IL-33 therapeutic agent. We believe ANB020 is the most advanced antibody therapeutic candidate in development targeting the IL-33 cytokine. We have completed a Phase 1 trial of ANB020 in healthy volunteers in Australia under an approved CTN, completed a Phase 2a clinical trial of ANB020 in moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis under an approved UK CTA, completed enrollment of a Phase 2a clinical trial of ANB020 in severe peanut allergy patients under an approved US IND and enrollment is ongoing for a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in severe adult eosinophilic asthma patients.
IL-33 Target Biology
IL-33 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that signals through the ST2 receptor, which multiple studies suggest serves as a central mediator of various immune responses leading to Th2-type inflammatory disorders, including atopic dermatitis, food allergies, asthma and other atopic diseases.  In response to pathogens, viruses, toxins or allergens, IL-33 is rapidly released from mucosal epithelial and endothelial cells.  For example, a recent scientific study has indicated that individuals with asthma symptoms express higher levels of IL-33 than healthy control subjects.  IL-33 initiates a diverse array of cellular immune responses, including the activation of mast cells, basophils and eosinophils, leading to production of downstream cytokines, such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13, which are associated with atopic diseases.  IL-33 also acts on T helper 2, or Th2, effector cells and Innate Lymphoid Cell Type 2, or ILC2, two types of white blood cells that initiate and orchestrate atopic responses.
Because ANB020 inhibits IL-33 function and acts upstream of key cell types involved in atopy and the subsequent release of Th2 cytokines, we believe that its mechanism has advantages over that of competing therapeutic antibodies which block only a subset of IL-4, IL-5 or IL-13 cytokines.
The role of IL-33 in peanut allergy is supported by translational research data, generated under our scientific collaboration with the Benaroya Research Institute at Virginia Mason (BRI), which was presented at the AAAAI’s 2017 Annual Meeting on March 4th.  This study assessed the biology of a distinct subset of T cells, called TH2A cells, which are found in elevated frequency in peanut allergic patients when compared to non-allergic individuals. TH2A cells isolated from peanut allergy patients demonstrated increased sensitivity to IL-33 signaling as a result of elevated expression of the IL-33 receptor. Data showed that, upon stimulus with IL-33, TH2A cells express significantly greater levels of effector cytokines IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13, which are believed to be associated with severe peanut allergy. The research concluded that IL-33 is a key checkpoint of allergic responses, and blocking IL-33 has the potential to reduce expression of the effector cytokines involved in 
5

severe peanut allergy. These findings provide further scientific support for the development of AnaptysBio’s proprietary anti-IL-33 antibody, known as ANB020, for the treatment of severe adult peanut allergy.
Genetic studies support the importance of the IL-33 pathway in atopic diseases. These studies have demonstrated that certain ST2 mutations reduce IL-33 mediated signaling and thereby protect individuals with mutated ST2 from asthma. Certain studies also demonstrate that mutation that increase IL-33 mediated signaling increase incidence of asthma and atopic dermatitis. This supports the hypothesis that an anti-IL-33 antibody, such as ANB020, has the potential to benefit asthma patients.
We believe that targeting IL-33 activity is a more promising therapeutic intervention strategy than targeting its receptor, ST2, because (i) ST2 is present in significantly larger quantities, in comparison to IL-33, which will likely require high anti-ST2 antibody dosing levels, (ii) anti-ST2 antibodies are likely to be internalized in vivo, which will likely require frequent dosing and (iii) soluble ST2 inhibits IL-33 function, therefore blocking ST2, and likely leading to the release of additional IL-33, thereby exacerbating atopic disease.
ANB020 Description
ANB020, which is a potential first-in-class therapeutic antibody, is our wholly-owned anti-IL-33 antibody product candidate generated using our SHM technology platform. Our preclinical studies have provided evidence of ANB020’s favorable potency and functional activity in human and cynomolgus monkey in vitro assays.  The high potency and functional activity of ANB020 for human and cynomolgus monkey IL-33 was measured using standard in vitro assays: equilibrium dissociation constant, or KD, and half-maximal inhibitory concentration values, or IC50.  ANB020 demonstrated highly potent KD values of approximately 1 pM and 37 pM for human and cynomolgus monkey IL-33, respectively.  ANB020 inhibits secretion of IL-5 from primary basophils purified from peripheral blood of healthy human subjects with an IC50 of approximately 1.5 nM, which is approximately 15-fold greater than that of the soluble ST2 antagonist. Lower KD and IC50 values indicate higher potency and functional activity, respectively.
Using peripheral blood mononuclear cells, or PBMC, ANB020 inhibited human and cynomolgus monkey interferon-gamma release with an IC50 of approximately 1.1 nM and approximately 20.4 nM, respectively.  We have developed a whole blood version of the PBMC assay, which we used in our Phase 1 trial to understand the pharmacodynamic activity of ANB020 in clinical trials.
Our preclinical development has also demonstrated that ANB020 has favorable manufacturability, pharmacokinetics and toxicology to support development.  Studies have demonstrated desirable manufacturing properties for ANB020, including robust expression from Chinese hamster ovary cells, or CHO cells, efficient purification using standard downstream techniques and stable formulation up to concentrations required for subcutaneous dosing in humans.  ANB020 demonstrated a half-life of approximately seven days in cynomolgus monkeys, retained full functional activity when incubated in normal human serum at 37 °C for one week and proved to be fully active in cynomolgus monkey sera two weeks after dosing.  We have conducted preclinical toxicology studies under good laboratory practices, or GLPs, for ANB020.  In addition, we have conducted manufacturing under good manufacturing practice to produce ANB020 in quantities for initial clinical use.
Clinical Development Plan
We have completed a Phase 1 trial of ANB020 in healthy volunteers in Australia under an approved CTN.  Our Phase 1 trial assessed, in single ascending doses, or SAD, and multiple ascending doses, or MAD, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic characteristics of ANB020.  The SAD cohorts of this Phase 1 trial have been completed and, subsequent to review of the clinical data generated under the SAD, the Australian regulatory authority approved the initiation of MAD cohorts, which have also been completed.  In the double-blind, placebo- controlled Phase 1 trial, 96 healthy volunteer subjects were dosed with either a single subcutaneous or intravenous dose of ANB020 ranging between 10 mg and 750 mg, or four multiple doses of ANB020 ranging between 40 mg and 300 mg over a period of four consecutive weeks.  In the SAD portion of our Phase 1 clinical trial of ANB020, 51 subjects (80%) experienced at least one treatment-emergent adverse events (AE) however the occurrence of AEs was similar between ANB020 (38 of 48; 79%) versus placebo (13 of 16, 81%) dosed individuals, and the most common AEs were upper respiratory tract infection (ANB020 48% vs. placebo 50%) and headache (ANB020 27% vs. placebo 31%).  The only serious adverse event reported in the SAD portion of the trial was severe neutropenia 22 days post single dose of intravenous 750 mg ANB020 in a single subject.  Neutrophil levels in this subject returned to normal by 29 days post-dose and this event was preceded by prodromal viral symptoms consistent with an on-going viral infection. In the MAD portion of the Phase 1 clinical trial of ANB020, 24 subjects (75%) experienced an AE, however there was no difference in the percentage of AEs observed amongst subjects dosed with ANB020 (18 of 24, 75%) versus 
6

placebo (6 of 8, 75%), and the most common AEs were upper respiratory tract infections (ANB020 21% versus placebo 38%) and headache (ANB020 33% versus placebo 38%). No severe adverse events were reported in the MAD portion of the clinical trial. None of these adverse events were determined to be drug-related and no dose-limiting toxicities were observed at any dose level.  We concurrently evaluated the pharmacodynamics of ANB020 in the SAD portion of the Phase 1 study using a whole blood ex-vivo assay upon stimulation with IL-33/IL-12, where ANB020 inhibition of IFN-gamma release was measured. Persistent and nearly complete inhibition was observed at 1032 hours (day 43) post-dosing for all SAD cohorts dosed with 40 mg ANB020 or greater, regardless of whether such dose was through a subcutaneous or intravenous route of administration. In the 300 mg and 750 mg IV dosed cohorts of the SAD portion of the study, the pharmacodynamic assay was also performed at 2040 hours (day 85) post-dosing, and nearly complete IFN-gamma inhibition was observed through this time point.  Pharmacokinetic testing indicated that the terminal half-life of ANB020 among the SAD cohorts was approximately 372 hours (15–16 days) with comparable values across all doses and regardless of intravenous or subcutaneous route of administration. Anti-drug antibodies were detected at only low titer levels, and were observed in 5 of 48 ANB020 dosed subjects in the SAD cohorts and 2 of 24 ANB020 dosed subjects in the MAD cohorts, and no effect was observed on pharmacokinetic parameters in any of the subjects with anti-drug antibody titers. All safety information generated under the single-ascending dose segment of our Phase 1 clinical trial was included in the US IND and UK CTA submissions which have been subsequent cleared.  There were no adverse events that were determined to be drug-related, and no dose-limiting toxicities were observed at any dose level.  We have concurrently utilized a whole blood ex vivo assay to evaluate pharmacodynamics, and we believe the results of this assay suggest that the pharmacodynamic activity of ANB020 can, at certain dose levels, extend to three months subsequent to a single administration.  We have disclosed detailed data from this Phase 1 trial at the AAD and AAAAI conferences in early March 2017.
We have subsequently completed a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in 12 moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis patients, under an approved CTA with the MHRA, announced top-line data from an interim analysis of this trial in October 2017 and presented data upon completion of this trial at the 2018 AAD Annual Meeting on February 17, 2018.
The Phase 2a proof-of-concept trial enrolled 12 moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis patients, who were initially administered a single intravenous dose of placebo within 14 days of enrollment, followed by a single intravenous 300mg dose of ANB020 one week subsequent to placebo. Prior to enrollment in the study, patients were not permitted any systemic or topical medications during a wash-out period. Patients were permitted to take a monitored amount of topical corticosteroids as rescue therapy during the course of the study. Clinical response was assessed by a number of endpoints, including the improvement of each patient’s EASI score, a tool used to measure the extent and severity of atopic dermatitis, at key time points following ANB020 administration relative to their enrollment baseline. The average baseline EASI score at enrollment amongst all 12 patients was 32. Other efficacy endpoints measured during the trial included the 5-D pruritus scale which measures itchiness, the 5-point IGA scale, the DLQI and the SCORAD scale. Exploratory mechanistic biomarkers included granulocyte infiltration and cytokine levels in localized skin lesions measured five days after placebo administration and five days after ANB020 administration.
Trial data indicated rapid and sustained clinical achievement of EASI-50, which is 50% or better improvement in EASI score relative to enrollment baseline, in 83% of patients at Day 29, and the 5-D pruritus score was reduced by 32% relative to enrollment baseline. As early as Day 15 post-ANB020 administration, 75% of patients reached EASI-50 and pruritus was reduced by 28%, which was sustained until Day 57 when 75% of patients achieved EASI-50; pruritus was reduced by 21% at Day 57. All 12 patients achieved EASI-50 on or before Day 57 post-ANB020 administration. Efficacy was sustained in some patients by Day 140 post-ANB020 administration where 42% of patients achieved EASI-50. ANB020 efficacy was not limited by disease severity as ANB020 had similar EASI score improvement in the 7 of 12 enrolled patients treated with systemic immuno-modulators pre-study, which exhibited an average EASI baseline score of 36 upon enrollment, relative to the remaining 5 of 12 enrolled patients that did not require systemic immuno-modulators pre-study, which exhibited an average EASI baseline score of 27. Twenty five percent of patients enrolled in this study achieved an IGA score of 0 or 1, indicating clear or almost clear skin, subsequent to a single ANB020 administration. Average DLQI score was maximized at 55% on Day 78 following ANB020 dosing and sustained to 43% at Day 140 relative to baseline. SCORAD efficacy was maximized at 40% at Day 29 following ANB020 dosing and sustained to 32% at Day 140 relative to baseline. Exploratory biomarker assessment indicated reduction of granulocyte infiltration into localized skin lesions by an average of 30% amongst all patients and 60% among the 10 patients achieving EASI-50 at 29 days post-ANB020 administration, while exploratory cytokine biomarker levels were below detection limit and therefore inconclusive. ANB020 was generally well-tolerated by all patients and no drug-related safety signals were observed. The most frequent adverse events reported were dizziness in 17% of patients post-placebo and headache in 25% of patients post-ANB020 administration, while one serious adverse event of severe depression was reported by a single patient on Day 140 post-ANB020, which was deemed not drug related since the patient had a 10 year pre-trial history of severe depression. This trial was completed in December 2017 including patient follow-up through 140 days post-ANB020 dosing
7

We believe these data demonstrate proof-of-concept for ANB020 in moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis and suggest that ANB020 may provide meaningful differentiation in terms of patient convenience. As further development in atopic dermatitis, we plan to initiate, during the first half of 2018, a Phase 2b randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in 200-300 adults patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis to evaluate different dose levels and dosing frequencies of subcutaneous administration of ANB020, with data expected in 2019.
We have completed enrollment, under our Investigational New Drug application, or IND, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 with 20 severe adult peanut allergy patients where efficacy is assessed by measuring the cumulative dose of peanut tolerated in an oral food challenge within one month before and within one month after a single dose of ANB020 or placebo. This trial randomizes severe adult peanut allergy patients, each of which have a history of anaphylaxis to accidental peanut exposure, to drug versus placebo on a 3 versus 1 ratio. Top-line data from this trial is expected in March 2018. 
We are enrolling, under a CTA with MHRA, of a Phase 2a trial of ANB020 in 24 severe adult eosinophilic asthma patients, where efficacy will be assessed using improvement in Forced Expiratory Volume in One Second after administration of a single dose of ANB020 or placebo. Top-line data are anticipated during the second quarter of 2018.
 Each of the aforementioned clinical trials are subject to regulatory review by the respective regulatory authority applicable to the jurisdiction of the trial.
As described in the section titled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, the clinical development of drug product candidates is subject to a wide range of risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause our actual development strategy or timeframes to vary.
ANB020 Market Opportunity
A significant portion of individuals in the U.S. population experiences at least one atopic disease during their lifetime, and it is well understood that most patients with one type of atopic condition tend to present with other allergic conditions.  While we believe ANB020 may be effective across atopic diseases, we have prioritized our development efforts based on unmet medical need and potential market opportunity.  We have chosen to focus our ANB020 program initially on three indications: severe adult eosinophilic asthma, severe adult peanut allergy and moderate-to-severe adult atopic dermatitis.
Atopic Dermatitis.  Atopic dermatitis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that affects approximately 1.4 million adults in the United States.  Human studies have demonstrated that IL-33 is highly expressed in atopic dermatitis lesions and leads to the recruitment of downstream cytokines (IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13) and eosinophils to the disease site in patients.  By inhibiting IL-33 function in patients, we believe ANB020 will suppress the production of the aforementioned downstream cytokines and lead to therapeutic benefit in patients with moderate to severe adult atopic dermatitis.
Current therapies for atopic dermatitis include the topical use of non-biologic small molecules and anti-IL-4/13 receptor antibody known as dupilumab (Dupixent®).  Dupilumab has been approved for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis that is not well controlled with prescription topical therapies or for those who cannot use topical therapies. While dupilumab has shown some benefit in disease remission, it requires the administration of a substantial antibody dose (300 mg) every other week, which we believe may not be convenient for atopic dermatitis patients. In addition, a significant number of atopic dermatitis patients taking dupilumab have reported conjunctivitis as a drug-related side effect.
Based upon public data analyses and discussions with physicians and key opinion leaders in the field, we believe approximately 280,000 atopic dermatitis patients in the United States are diagnosed with a moderate-to- severe form of this disease that significantly impairs their daily professional and social lifestyle. We estimate that 98,000 atopic dermatitis patients would be eligible for treatment with a systemic biologic therapy such as ANB020.
Peanut Allergy.  Peanuts are the most common cause of food-induced allergy in the United States. We estimate, based on our analysis of publicly available data sources and interviews with physicians and key opinion leaders in the field, that approximately 1.7 million adults in the United States have allergic responses to peanut. We estimate approximately 600,000 are treated by allergists and approximately 400,000 are at risk for severe reactions and therefore we believe are suitable for treatment with systemic biological therapies.
Existing therapies have failed to prevent the occurrence of severe reactions due to accidental peanut exposure, which often results in systemic anaphylaxis and can lead to death.  Immunotherapy approaches, such as oral or transdermal desensitization, currently being developed for this indication require patients to be dosed with quantities of peanut antigens 
8

over time. If patients are able to overcome the toxicities of this allergen- based approach, therapeutic benefit, on an allergen-specific basis, may be observed after 12 to 24 months of oral or skin patch based delivery of peanut allergens. The long-term safety and efficacy of immunotherapy is still uncertain, and these desensitization treatments have not yet been approved by the FDA. Immunotherapy approaches are generally not applicable for treatment of severe peanut allergy patients due to safety concerns.
ANB020 has the potential to rapidly suppress severe adult peanut allergy through its cytokine targeting mechanism, which is allergen non-specific, allowing patients with multiple allergic responses to benefit from a single therapy, and avoids tolerability issues by acting without allergen dosing. If approved, we anticipate that ANB020 could become a prophylactic therapy for severe adult peanut allergy patients at risk of accidental peanut exposure.
Asthma.  We estimate, based on our analysis of publicly available data sources and interviews with physicians and key opinion leaders in the field that asthma affects approximately 7.7% of the adult U.S. population, or 19.0 million individuals, of which 1.1 million individuals have severe disease that cannot be controlled by standard-of-care therapy.  As a chronic inflammatory disorder, severe asthma can lead to permanent structural damage to the airways and long-term reductions in lung function.  Although many mild-to-moderate asthmatics respond well to currently available treatments, which include inhaled corticosteroids, or ICS, and long-acting beta agonists, or LABA, severe asthma in patients is generally not adequately controlled by such available therapies.  We will initially focus on the treatment of severe asthma that, based on our analysis, includes 1.1 million adult patients whose disease is not sufficiently controlled through standard-of-care therapy.  We have conducted primary market studies that estimate approximately 45% of these patients are candidates for biologic therapies, such as ANB020.
Existing biologic therapies include Xolair, also known as omalizumab, which is approved for the treatment of moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma patients whose asthma symptoms are not controlled by ICS, carries a black box warning about the risk of anaphylaxis, a severe, potentially fatal, allergic reaction. and Nucala, also known as mepolizumab, which was approved for the add-on maintenance treatment in patients aged 12 years or older with severe eosinophilic asthma and Fasenra, also known as benralizumab, which has been approved for the add-on maintenance treatment of patients with severe asthma aged 12 years or older with an eosinophilic phenotype, and Cinqair, also known as reslizumab, approved for add-on maintenance treatment of patients with severe asthma aged 18 years and older with an eosinophilic asthma.  Other emerging therapies currently in development, such as, benralizumab, dupilumab, MSTT1041A and GSK3772847, have yet to be approved by the FDA for treatment of asthma.  We believe that ANB020 may have therapeutic benefit across a broad range of ICS-refractory severe adult eosinophilic asthma patients, and plan to differentiate ANB020’s therapeutic efficacy, dosing frequency and safety relative to competitors.
ANB019: Anti-IL-36R Antibody
Overview
ANB019 is an antibody that inhibits the function of IL-36R, which we are initially developing as a potential first-in-class therapy for GPP and PPP patients.  GPP is a life-threatening, rare systemic inflammatory disorder reported to affect approximately 3,000 patients in the United States alone, with no currently approved therapies.  Studies have shown that GPP can be associated with mutations in the gene encoding the IL-36R antagonist, or IL-36RA, or can be caused by excessive IL-36 cytokine levels, that lead to abnormally high signaling through the IL-36R and thereby cause the systemic inflammatory condition, GPP.  We also plan to develop ANB019 for other IL-36R driven inflammatory conditions, including PPP, which is reported to affect approximately 150,000 patients in the United States.  We plan to seek FDA Orphan Drug Designation for ANB019 for the treatment of GPP and PPP, which we believe may be differentiated from the non-rare plaque psoriasis, or psoriasis vulgaris, based upon distinctive genetic and translational features unique to GPP and/or PPP.  We have completed a Phase 1 trial of ANB019 in healthy volunteers in Australia under an approved CTN.
IL-36R Target Biology
The IL-36 subfamily of proteins consists of the IL-36 receptor antagonist, or IL-36RA, as well as three cytokines, IL-36 alpha, IL-36 beta and IL-36 gamma, each of which have agonistic characteristics and signal through IL-36R.  These IL-36 proteins are mainly expressed in keratinocytes, the predominant cell type in the epidermis.  The role of the IL-36RA is to dampen the inflammatory effects of IL-36 alpha, IL-36 beta and IL-36 gamma.
Studies have demonstrated the relevance of IL-36 in regulating inflammation in the skin.  Mice over-expressing the IL-36 alpha cytokine undergo a psoriasis-like condition when challenged with an inflammatory stimulus.  Additionally, 
9

immuno-deficient mice transplanted with human psoriatic skin have been shown to require the IL-36R signaling to maintain disease.
Recent human studies have demonstrated that mutations in the IL-36RA can lead to the occurrence of GPP by dysregulating the IL-36R signaling pathway.  However, translational studies conducted by AnaptysBio have also demonstrated that a significant number of GPP patients do not have mutations in the IL- 36RA but are likely to have excessive levels of IL-36 cytokines leading to the same disease as patients with mutations.  These findings support our hypothesis that IL-36 signaling plays a significant role in GPP.
In addition, studies have demonstrated that humans with genetic mutations that downregulate IL-36 receptor activity are otherwise normal with no specific clinical phenotype.
We believe that ANB019 has the potential to be the first-in-class therapeutic antibody targeting IL-36R, serving as a therapeutic opportunity for patients with IL-36 signaling mediated inflammatory disease, including GPP and PPP.
ANB019 Description
ANB019 was generated using our SHM technology platform and has demonstrated high functional potency in blocking human and cynomolgus monkey IL-36 signaling in preclinical studies.
ANB019 blocks signal transduction through the human IL-36R and cynomolgus monkey IL-36R by inhibiting the interaction between the receptor and IL-36 alpha, IL-36 beta, and IL-36 gamma cytokines.  The high potency and functional activity of ANB019 for human and cynomolgus monkey IL-36R was measured using standard in vitro assays to determine K D, and IC 50 values.  ANB019 has demonstrated potent K D values of approximately of 71 pM and 209 pM for human IL-36R and cynomolgus monkey IL-36R, respectively.  The antibody exhibits high specificity for IL-36R, displaying no detectable binding to related proteins.  Functional potency of ANB019 is at least 100-fold greater than IL-36RA in human systems, which is measured as the IC 50 of inhibition of interleukin-8, or IL-8, release from human keratinocytes.
ANB019 functional activity has been demonstrated through inhibition of IL-8 secretion from human primary keratinocytes when stimulated by IL-36 gamma of approximately 0.15 nM and 1.2 nM, respectively.  Lower K D and IC 50 values indicate higher potency and functional activity, respectively.  Similar IC 50 values were observed in those same preclinical studies when keratinocytes were stimulated with IL-36 alpha or beta.
To date, we have demonstrated that the half-life of ANB019 in cynomolgus monkeys is more than nine days.  ANB019 is well-expressed from CHO mammalian cells and is readily purified using standard methodologies.  In addition, the antibody retained full functional activity when incubated in normal human serum at 37 °C for one week.
Clinical Development Plan
We are currently conducting, under an approved CTN, a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers, where 54 subjects are dosed with a single subcutaneous or intravenous dose of ANB019 between 10mg and 750mg, 18 subjects were administered multiple ascending doses of ANB019 intravenously ranging between 40mg and 300mg weekly for four consecutive weeks and 18 are dosed with placebo. In November 2017, we announced positive top-line results from an interim analysis, which was conducted after the 85-day, post-dosing monitoring period has been completed for the single ascending dose cohorts while monitoring is on-going for the multiple ascending dose cohorts. ANB019 was well-tolerated by all subjects and no dose-limiting toxicities were observed to date.  The most frequent treatment-emergent adverse events observed in the single ascending dose cohorts were mild upper respiratory tract infections in 10 of 36 (28%) subjects dosed with ANB019 versus six of 12 (50%) subjects dosed with placebo. No serious adverse events were reported among the single ascending dose cohorts through completion of monitoring, and none have been observed in the multiple ascending dose cohorts to date. The in vivo half-life of ANB019 was approximately 28 days for both subcutaneous and intravenous routes of administration, with bioavailability of approximately 90%. A single dose of ANB019 at certain dose levels was able to completely suppress IL-36 cytokine function for 85 days, as measured using an ex vivo pharmacodynamic assay.
Based upon the favorable Phase 1 results described above, we have submitted a CTA filing to the MHRA supporting the initiation of a 10-patient open-label multi-dose Phase 2 study of ANB019 in GPP patients, and anticipate filing additional regulatory applications to support the initiation of a randomized placebo-controlled multi-dose study of ANB019 in PPP.
10

As described in the section titled “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report, the clinical development of drug product candidates is subject to a wide range of risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause our actual development strategy or timeframes to vary.
ANB019 Market Opportunity
IL-36R cytokine dysfunction is implicated in multiple inflammatory disorders including GPP and PPP.
Generalized Pustular Psoriasis.  GPP is a chronic, life-threatening, rare disease with no currently approved therapies.  GPP is a systemic inflammatory disease characterized by the development of widespread pustules marked by idiopathic exacerbations.  In severe cases, GPP patients can die from cardio-pulmonary failure, exhaustion, toxicity and/or infection subsequent to occurrences of pustular flares.  Patients with GPP suffer without robust therapeutic options because currently approved psoriasis management therapies have not demonstrated clear efficacy in the treatment of this condition.
Through assessment of public literature and primary key opinion leader discussions, we estimate GPP affects approximately 3,000 individuals in the United States.  We have conducted, and will continue to conduct, translational studies to identify GPP patients for potential enrollment in our upcoming clinical trials in this indication.  Given the limited size of this patient population in the United States, we plan to seek Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA for ANB019 for the treatment of GPP.  The FDA may grant Orphan Drug Designation to a product intended to treat a rare disease or condition—generally one that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States.  If we obtain Orphan Drug Designation for ANB019 for the treatment of GPP and subsequently are the first Biologics License Application, or BLA applicant to receive FDA approval for a product containing the same active molecular structure as ANB019, ANB019 would be entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for the treatment of GPP.  Although the GPP patient population is small, we believe there is an unmet medical need that ANB019 may be able to address.
Palmo-plantar Pustular Psoriasis.  PPP is a non-fatal form of pustular psoriasis that we estimate affects approximately 2% of total psoriasis cases, approximately 150,000 patients in the United States alone.  Patients experience a chronic occurrence of sterile pustules on their hands and feet, while systemic levels of IL-36 cytokines and other inflammatory disease biomarkers are also elevated.  Patients with severe symptoms may have significant pain and be unable to stand, walk or do manual work, resulting in greatly diminished quality of life.  Existing anti-inflammatory therapeutic options to our knowledge have not proven to be consistently effective in treating PPP.  As we believe the PPP patient population to be less than 200,000 individuals in the United States, we plan to seek Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA for ANB019 in this indication as well.
Checkpoint Receptor Agonist Programs
Our strategy includes the discovery and development of therapeutic antibodies targeting emerging opportunities in inflammation.  We are developing checkpoint receptor agonist antibodies to multiple different immune checkpoint receptors for the treatment of certain autoimmune diseases where we believe checkpoint receptor function is insufficiently activated.  Known human immune checkpoint receptors include CTLA-4, PD-1, LAG-3, BTLA, TIM-3 and TIGIT.  Certain checkpoint receptor agonist antibodies that we have developed have demonstrated efficacy in a rodent model of graft-versus-host disease.  We anticipate filing an IND for one of our checkpoint receptor antibodies during the second half of 2019.
Our SHM Antibody Discovery Platform
Antibody Overview
Antibodies are complex proteins naturally generated by the immune system to neutralize foreign pathogens such as bacteria or viruses.  B cells, a white blood cell type responsible for the generation of antibodies in response to pathogens, secrete billions of antibodies with different specificities into the bloodstream.  Antibodies are structurally distinct Y-shaped proteins formed through the combination of two long proteins, called heavy chains, and two short proteins, called light chains.  Each heavy and light chain pair forms a binding site where the antibody specifically binds its target, otherwise known as an antigen, at the Fab domain of the antibody molecule.  The specificity of each antibody to a target, and the potency of its binding strength to that target are defined by the amino acid sequences of heavy and light chains in the Fab domain of the antibody molecule.  The other end of the antibody, called the Fc domain, is responsible for communication between the antibody and the rest of the immune system.  Fc domains bind to various receptors and cause immune system effector responses.
11

Therapeutic antibodies are typically non-naturally occurring, or recombinant, antibodies specifically developed to treat human diseases by binding to certain proteins, and thereby modulating key biological processes.  Therapeutic antibodies are injectable products that are typically dosed subcutaneously or intravenously, unlike synthetic chemistry-based “small molecule” therapeutics that may also be administered orally.  Therapeutic antibodies have the following key features that we believe make them more predictable than small molecules:

• | Target Specificity. Due to the large size and complex nature of the antibody Fab domain, antibodies generally bind with high specificity to the desired therapeutic target and tend to exhibit less off-target binding to unrelated proteins, which lowers the risk of unintended biological side effects such as toxicity. 


• | Pharmacokinetics and Dosing Frequency. As complex proteins, antibodies are metabolized and distributed differently than small molecules. Full length antibodies tend to exhibit serum half-lives of seven to 24 days in humans, leading to bi-weekly or monthly dosing as typical practice for therapeutic antibodies. 


• | Potency and Dose Quantities. Antibodies are typically highly potent in binding to their desired target, with binding dissociation constants in the low nanomolar to picomolar range. Hence, antibodies tend to be dosed at low amounts (less than 1 gram quantities per course of therapy). 

We believe that therapeutic antibodies can be significantly de-risked pre-clinically for specificity, toxicology and pharmacokinetics, which is not generally true for small molecule drugs.
Since the first therapeutic antibody was approved by the FDA in 1986, the pharmaceutical industry has sought opportunities to leverage antibodies as therapeutic agents to treat human disease.  Global sales of therapeutic antibodies have reached over $40 billion annually and are predicted to remain a fast-growing segment of the therapeutic market.
Limitations of Competing Antibody Technologies
Despite the promise of antibodies as a therapeutic modality, historically it has been difficult and time- consuming to generate therapeutic-grade antibodies utilizing competing antibody discovery technologies.  Such technologies have relied primarily on mouse immunization methodologies (such as wild-type or engineered mice),
microbial antibody display libraries (such as phage or yeast cell display) or human B cell screening to generate antibodies against therapeutic targets of interest.  We believe the key limitations of these competitive approaches include:

• | Insufficient Diversity. Each of the prior technologies has limited, and often static, diversity of antibodies available for selection. The number of therapeutic targets that can be addressed by the available antibodies is therefore limited. It is particularly difficult for mouse immunization approaches to identify therapeutics against conserved proteins that are homologous between human and mouse species; 


• | Lack of Functional Activity Selection. Competing technologies have not been able to drive antibody selection on the basis of functional activity. Even if antibodies are available against a certain target, they may not bind the correct region or epitope of the protein to achieve the intended functional therapeutic effects; 


• | Low Potency. Antibodies from competing technologies tend to demonstrate low binding potencies against their targets. Such incomplete binding may not result in therapeutic effect that is sufficient to change disease outcomes, or require impractically high doses to convey therapeutic benefit; and 


• | Unpredictable Manufacturing Properties. Using microbial display systems such as phage and yeast display libraries has resulted in unpredictable expression, stability and formulation when manufacturing is initiated using mammalian cells, thus leading to poor production yields and product stability. 

Mouse immunization methodologies.  Mouse immunization methodologies involve the administration of human target antigen to mice with wild-type or engineered immune systems, with the assumption that their immune systems will generate antibodies with sufficient potency against the desired human antigen epitope to convey biological effect.  A key limitation of this approach is that when the mouse is dosed with an antigen that is similar in the human and mouse, the antigen is seen by the mouse immune system as one of its own proteins, and very few, if any, antibodies are generated.  In addition, the mouse immune system often generates mouse antibodies to epitopes that are not therapeutically relevant to humans, leading the resulting antibodies to bind the human target but failing to convey therapeutic effect.
Microbial antibody display systems.  Microbial antibody display systems require screening of antibodies, typically formatted as antibody fragments, from a static library diversity displayed on a bacterial or yeast microbial cell surface.  The static nature of these libraries limits the range of antibody specificities to 10 9 or 10 10 range, which is generally insufficient to avail high-affinity antibodies against many antigens.  This can lead to suboptimal potency, and subsequently require phage/
12

yeast antibodies to be matured significantly, typically with random mutagenesis, to obtain therapeutic level potencies, which is a labor-intensive and inefficient process.  In addition, antibodies selected using this approach are expressed through the microbial cell expression machinery, which differs significantly in terms of manufacturability (expression level, glycosylation, formulation and stability) from mammalian cell expression typically utilized for clinical and commercial manufacturing of therapeutic antibodies.  Such differences typically lead to difficulties in mammalian cell manufacturing of microbial display-derived antibodies.
Human B cell screening methodologies.  Human B cell screening methodologies involve the screening and isolation of antibodies from peripheral human blood against therapeutic antigens of interest.  The key limitation of this approach is that circulating human B cells generally do not develop antibodies against endogenous proteins because their function is to develop humoral immunity against foreign pathogens, such as bacteria and viruses. Therefore, it is challenging to obtain therapeutic antibodies against human antigens through this approach.
Our Technology Solution
Our innovative platform is designed to replicate the natural process of SHM embedded within the human immune system to rapidly develop a diverse range of therapeutic-grade antibodies in vitro.  SHM is a critical, endogenous process that generates the essential antibody diversity required to develop a natural immune response to pathogens.  Human genomes encode a limited number of antibody genes, which are insufficient to generate antibodies against the wide variety of foreign pathogens encountered from the external environment.  SHM enables the human immune system to expand the limited diversity encoded within human genomes to the billions of antibody specificities required to defend against external pathogens.
The key enzyme required for SHM is called activation-induced cytidine deaminase, or AID.  AID has been genetically conserved throughout mammalian biology and is required for the non-random mutagenesis pattern associated with SHM.  AID is specifically expressed by B cells after contact with a foreign pathogen and modifies antibody sequences in a non-random fashion.  Through SHM, B cells evolve antibodies with the potency and specificity required to clear the foreign pathogen.  However, within the in vivo environment, SHM does not generally progress to the creation of high potency antibodies or develop antibodies against the body’s own proteins.
By coupling in vitro SHM with our mammalian cell system that simultaneously displays and secretes antibodies, we believe SHM is able to rapidly identify and mature antibodies with desired functional activity to high potency while simultaneously mitigating the risks associated with manufacturing.  We introduce AID into mammalian cells to replicate the non-random mutagenesis SHM pattern observed within B cells in vivo.  Starting with a library of either fully-human or humanized antibodies, our platform generates AID-based variants of the starting antibody library throughout the process.  We have demonstrated that the pattern of mutagenesis we observe in vitro using our platform technology closely mimics the pattern observed among in vivo generated antibodies, thereby increasing confidence that antibodies generated by our platform will be tolerated when used as therapeutic drugs in humans.
By selecting antibodies based on their antigen binding from the broad antibody library population SHM develops, we are able to evolve in an iterative fashion the binding potency and function of antibodies to levels that we believe will be required for therapeutic use.  We believe this approach allows us to rapidly generate antibodies with high binding potency against a target.  Through this approach, we have successfully generated therapeutic antibody product candidates to more than 25 targets, including targets that we believe have been challenging for competing antibody technology platforms to generate such as IL-33 and TIM-3.
Each evolving antibody is expressed within the SHM-active mammalian cell to concurrently display the evolved antibody on the cell surface to permit cell sorting selection for potency properties while the same antibody is secreted into the extracellular media at sufficient quantities to permit functional assays to be conducted.  In this manner, the evolving antibodies expressed by each transfected cell are assessed in a high- throughput fashion for the desired functional activity relevant to the therapeutic mechanism.
We believe our antibody discovery platform, as described above, has the following advantages over competing approaches:

• | Diversity against difficult targets. We are able to generate an unprecedented diversity of antibodies by applying SHM-based diversification outside of the constraints of an in vivo environment. This enables us to develop antibodies against human targets that we believe have not otherwise been accessible to prior technologies. 

13


• | High potency. Because our platform generates highly-potent antibodies, we are potentially able to modulate every extracellular target associated with human disease, and believe only small therapeutic doses may be required to mediate therapeutic effect in vivo. 


• | Functional activity selection. Our mammalian cell system simultaneously displays and secretes antibodies during the antibody discovery process, allowing us to incorporate functional assays throughout the process and focus on producing product candidates that are optimized for the desired therapeutic activity. 


• | Speed. Our platform technology has enabled us to generate therapeutic-grade antibodies and initiate subsequent preclinical manufacturing and toxicology studies, typically in less than 12 months. We believe this timeline is significantly shorter than conventional approaches based upon mouse immunization and microbial display systems. 


• | Manufacturability. By utilizing our mammalian cell display system, we believe our approach increases the probability of success in manufacturing and commercialization by mitigating the risks associated with antibody expression, formulation and stability during the antibody generation process. 

Collaborations
TESARO
In March 2014, we entered into a collaboration and exclusive license agreement with TESARO. We executed an amendment in November 2014 to add an additional dual-reactive antibody product candidate. Under the terms of the amended agreement, we granted TESARO an exclusive, royalty-bearing, sub-licensable worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, market and sell products based on our proprietary technology for the discovery, generation and optimization of certain specified immunotherapy antibodies. We have granted TESARO exclusive rights to three monospecific antibody product candidates targeting TIM-3 (TSR-022), LAG-3 (TSR-033) and PD-1 (TSR-042) and a bispecific antibody product candidates targeting PD-1 and LAG-3. Under the amended agreement, we are responsible for performing initial discovery and development of therapeutic antibodies with the goal of generating immunotherapy antibodies for use in the treatment of cancer. TESARO is responsible for all subsequent preclinical, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing and other activities necessary to develop and commercialize antibodies selected under each of six development programs, and TESARO is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to research, develop and commercialize at least one product to each of the four targets. During the term, other than under the collaboration, both TESARO and we are prohibited from developing and commercializing, independently or with a third party, any agents targeting LAG-3, PD-1 or TIM- 3, as single agents or in combination with other therapies.  We have completed our responsibilities under the terms of the agreement as of December 31, 2016 to generate and develop antibodies to certain defined stages of preclinical development.  
Under the terms of this agreement, TESARO made up-front, non-creditable and non-refundable cash payments aggregating $19.0 million to us during 2014. TESARO is also required to reimburse us on a quarterly basis for specified costs incurred by us in our initial discovery and development activities covered by the agreement. For each of the targets for which TESARO is granted exclusive rights, TESARO is required to make milestone payments to us of up to $18.0 million if certain research and development milestone events are achieved, up to an additional $90.0 million of milestone payments if certain U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory submissions and approvals occur in initial and subsequent indications, and up to an additional $165.0 million upon the achievement of specified levels of annual worldwide net sales. TESARO will also be required to pay us tiered single-digit royalties, on a product- by-product basis, on worldwide annual net sales, and additional commercial milestone payments if specified levels of annual net sales of a product are attained.
This agreement expires when no further payments are due to us, unless earlier terminated. Either party may terminate the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. TESARO may terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days’ prior written notice to us.
Celgene
In December 2011, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Celgene, or the Collaboration Agreement, to develop human therapeutic antibodies against multiple biological targets. We completed our responsibilities under the terms of the agreement to generate antibodies against various mutually agreed biological targets during fiscal 2014. On a target-by-target basis, we provided Celgene an option to obtain rights to develop and commercialize a defined number of antibodies against each target. We were successful in generating antibodies against multiple targets and Celgene has exercised its option with respect to antibodies against three targets. Celgene is currently advancing two anti-inflammatory antibodies, of which an anti-PD-1 agonist antibody, also known as CC-90006, is currently in a Phase 1 trial, while the other program is currently in preclinical development.
14

Upon execution of the Collaboration Agreement in 2011, Celgene paid us a one-time, non-refundable, non- creditable initial fee of $6.0 million. Celgene has reimbursed us for specified research costs in accordance with the research plans. Celgene is also obligated, on a project-by-project basis, to pay us up to a total of an additional $18.0 million if certain research and development milestone events are achieved under such project and up to a total of an additional $35.0 million if certain regulatory milestone events are achieved under such project. Celgene will also be required to pay us single digit royalties on net sales of products containing the delivered antibodies on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the later of the expiration of the last patent right that covers manufacture, use or sale of such product in such country, and in any case at least ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in such country.
The Collaboration Agreement continues until our royalty rights on any Celgene product resulting from the collaboration expire, which period will last at least ten years after any such product first goes to market. Either we or Celgene may terminate the agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party.
In-Licensing Agreements License Agreement with MRC
In 2006, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with the Medical Research Council, or MRC, to obtain rights to multiple patents and patent applications relating to fundamental discoveries with respect to SHM and AID by Dr. Michael Neuberger and his colleagues.  We since amended this license agreement to include additional subject matter. Under the terms of the agreement, or the MRC Agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide, sublicensable license under specified patent rights to manufacture, use, sell and commercialize products and methods covered by such patents for all fields of use. We are responsible for prosecution of the licensed patents and the development of therapeutic products covered by the intellectual property. We are obligated to research and develop licensed methods and licensed products for the purpose of commercializing such methods and products at least as diligently as we research and develop our other products of similar market potential and stages of development.
We are responsible for paying MRC an annual fee of $55,000. Additionally, for each product developed and commercialized under the MRC Agreement, we are obligated to pay MRC up to an additional $175,000 upon the achievement of specified development milestone events and up to an additional $275,000 upon the achievement of specified regulatory milestone events. In addition we owe MRC royalties at 0.25% of annual net sales for worldwide sales on a product-by-product at or below $750 million and 1% of annual net sales of products worldwide above $750 million, payable on a country-by-country basis until the expiration of the last licensed patent covering such product in such country. Under this license agreement, we have rights to 19 patents and three pending patent applications worldwide.
Unless earlier terminated, the MRC Agreement will expire upon expiration of all royalty payment obligations under the MRC Agreement. Either party may terminate the MRC Agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party or upon the occurrence of specified bankruptcy events for the other party.  We may terminate the MRC Agreement upon 60 days’ notice to MRC.
License Agreement with Millipore
In May 2009, we signed a non-exclusive research and commercial license agreement with Millipore Corporation, or Millipore, to obtain a non-exclusive license to patents and patent applications directed to the ubiquitous chromatin opening elements technology for the expression of proteins, particularly antibodies, generated by us, which license may be sublicensed to our contractors and partners. Under the terms of the agreement, or the Millipore Agreement, we are obligated to pay Millipore $87,500 in annual license fees, adjusted annually for inflation using the Consumer Price Index. Additionally, for each product developed and commercialized under the Millipore Agreement, we are obligated to pay Millipore up to an additional $75,000 upon the achievement of specified development milestone events and up to an additional $4.4 million upon the achievement of specified commercial milestone events. We do not owe Millipore any royalties on net sales of products commercialized under the Millipore Agreement.
Unless affirmatively terminated by one of the parties, the Millipore Agreement will continue in effect. Either party may terminate the Millipore Agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. We may terminate the Millipore Agreement upon 90 days’ notice to Millipore.
Australian Operations
In March 2015, we established a wholly-owned Australian subsidiary called AnaptysBio Pty. Ltd, in order to conduct various preclinical and clinical activities for ANB020 and ANB019. We believe our Australian subsidiary will be eligible for certain financial incentives made available by the Australian government for biotech research and development 
15

expenses. Specifically, Australia provides a refundable tax credit in the form of a cash rebate equal to 43.5% of qualified expenditures on biotech research and development projects to Australian companies that operate the majority of their research and development activities associated with such projects in Australia. A wholly-owned Australian subsidiary of a non-Australian parent company is eligible to receive the refundable tax credit, provided that the Australian subsidiary retains the rights to the data and intellectual property generated in Australia, and provided that the total revenues of the parent company and its consolidated subsidiaries during the period for which the refundable tax credit is claimed are less than $20.0 million Australian dollars.  
In addition, by establishing operations in Australia, we are able to access an established network of manufacturing and clinical development support contractors located in Australia and benefit from Australia’s streamlined approval processes for the initiation of first-in human studies. We have few employees with experience advancing product candidates through the Australian regulatory review process and have therefore engaged Australian consultants with expertise in the regulatory requirements and clinical development of therapeutic products in Australia. We are also working with established manufacturing and clinical development support contractors located in Australia, who are familiar with Australian regulatory and product development processes.
Intellectual Property
Our intellectual property is critical to our business and we strive to protect it, including by obtaining and maintaining patent protection in the United States and internationally for our technology platform, product candidates, novel biological discoveries, epitopes, new therapeutic approaches and potential indications, and other inventions that are important to our business.  In total, our patent portfolio, including patents to our technology platform licensed from MRC and patents licensed from Kyoto University, consisted of 42 issued patents and 84 pending patent applications as of December 31, 2017.
For our product candidates, generally we initially pursue patent protection covering compositions of matter, antibody sequence diversity, epitopes, functional activity and methods of use.  Throughout the development of our product candidates, we seek to identify additional means of obtaining patent protection that would potentially enhance commercial success, including through additional methods of use and biomarker and companion diagnostic related claims.
The patent portfolios for our two internal programs and platform technology are outlined below:
ANB020
As of December 31, 2017, we owned 16 patent applications in various countries directed to the antibody sequence of ANB020 and its variants, epitopes, methods of use and related matters.  We also intend to prosecute our pending applications and pursue patent issuance and protection in key commercial markets where significant product sales may occur.  Patents that may issue from our pending applications would provide protection until October 2038.
ANB019
As of December 31, 2017, we owned 13 patent applications in various countries directed to the antibody sequence of ANB019 and its variants, epitopes, methods of use and related matters. We also intend to prosecute our pending applications and pursue patent issuance and protection in key commercial markets where significant product sales may occur.  Patents that may issue from our pending applications would provide protection until April 2036.
Platform Technology
Our platform technology is covered by U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, emanating from our in-licensed portfolio and wholly-owned portfolio, currently under prosecution in various jurisdictions.
Our wholly-owned portfolio includes patents and patent applications directed to platform technology related inventions associated with antibody library design, antibody humanization, mammalian cell display and secretion, and other technical attributes relating to the discovery, maturation and optimization of antibodies using our technology platform.  Patents relating to our platform technology that have been issued to date provide protection through May 2033.
The patent positions of biotechnology companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions.  In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance.  Consequently, we may not obtain or maintain adequate patent protection for any of our product candidates or for our technology platform.  We cannot predict whether the patent applications 
16

we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors.  Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties.  For a more comprehensive discussion of the risks related to our intellectual property, please see “Risk Factors— Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.”
The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application related to the patent. A U.S. patent also may be accorded a patent term adjustment, or PTA, under certain circumstances to compensate for delays in obtaining the patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. In some instances, such a PTA may result in a U.S. patent term extending beyond 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application related to the U.S. patent. In addition, in the United States, the term of a U.S. patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. We plan to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available, however there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and if granted, the length of such extensions.
We also rely on trade secrets relating to our technology platform and product candidates and seek to protect and maintain the confidentiality of proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets.  
It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us.  These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances.  Our agreements with employees also provide that all inventions conceived by the employee in the course of employment with us or from the employee’s use of our confidential information are our exclusive property.
Manufacturing
We must manufacture drug product for clinical trial use in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP.  The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to organization of personnel, buildings and facilities, equipment, control of components and drug product containers and closures, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, holding and distribution, laboratory controls, records and reports, and returned or salvaged products.  The manufacturing facilities for our product candidates must meet cGMP requirements and FDA satisfaction before any product is approved and we can manufacture commercial products.  Our third-party manufacturers will also be subject to periodic inspections of facilities by the FDA and other authorities, including procedures and operations used in the testing and manufacture of our products to assess our compliance with applicable regulations.
Our internal manufacturing capabilities include non-cGMP antibody and reagent production using small scale quantities for characterization and in vitro and in vivo preclinical assessment of product candidates.  We do not have and we do not currently plan to acquire or develop the facilities or capabilities to manufacture cGMP drug substance or filled drug product for use in human clinical trials.
We rely on third-party manufacturers to generate cGMP-grade cell lines and will rely on them to produce cGMP drug product required for our planned clinical trials, and expect to continue to rely on third parties to manufacture clinical trial drug supplies for the foreseeable future.  We also contract with additional third parties for the filling, labeling, packaging, storage and distribution of investigational drug products.  We have personnel with significant technical, manufacturing, analytical, quality, including cGMP, and project management experience to oversee our third-party manufacturers and to manage manufacturing and quality data and information for regulatory compliance purposes.  While our contract manufacturers have 
17

not yet produced cGMP batches of our product candidates, they have previously manufactured products for other companies in compliance with cGMP and have been previously inspected by regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP standards.  Similarly, our personnel have had experience with cGMP at previous positions.
Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements subjects a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, including warning letters, the seizure or recall of products, injunctions, consent decrees placing significant restrictions on or suspending manufacturing operations and civil and criminal penalties.  These actions could have a material impact on the availability of our products.  Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel.
Competition
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by continuing technological advancement and significant competition. While we believe that our product candidates, technology, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face competition from major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and public and private research institutions, among others. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. Key product features that would affect our ability to effectively compete with other therapeutics include the efficacy, safety and convenience of our products and the ease of use and effectiveness of any companion diagnostics. The level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors will also significantly affect the pricing and competitiveness of our products. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.
Many of the companies against which we may compete have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.
Specifically, there are several companies developing or marketing treatments that may be approved for the same indications and/or diseases as our lead product candidates, ANB019 and ANB020, including major pharmaceutical companies. 
For asthma, our competitors include omalizumab (Xolair; Roche) which has received FDA approval and functions by inhibiting the binding between free IgE and FceRI; antibodies that bind IL-5 and inhibit its interaction with the IL-5 receptor such as mepolizumab (Nucala; Glaxosmithkline), which the FDA approved for the add-on maintenance treatment in patients aged 12 years or older with severe eosinophilic asthma, and reslizumab (Cinqair, Teva), which has been approved for adult patients aged 18 years and older for the treatment of inadequately controlled asthma in patients with elevated eosinophils, despite an inhaled corticosteroids treatment regimen; antibodies such as benralizumab (Fasenra, AstraZeneca) that bind the IL-5 receptor; antibodies that bind to IL-13 such as lebrikizumab (Dermira), tralokinumab (AstraZeneca) and anrukinzumab (Pfizer), which are in clinical testing; antibodies that bind the IL-4 receptor alpha chain, such as dupilumab (Regeneron, Sanofi), currently under review by the FDA under a BLA filing, an ST2-binding antibodies including MSTT1041A (Roche) and GSK3772847 (GSK) currently in Phase 2 clinical trials. Regeneron and Sanofi have recently announced an IL-33 related program (REGN 3500) in clinical development indicated for asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and atopic dermatitis, AstraZeneca has also recently announced an IL-33 related program (MEDI3506) in a Phase 1 clinical trial and is indicated for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Pfizer has recently announced an IL-33 related program (PF-06817024) for chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps and atopic dermatitis and Eli Lilly has announced an IL-33 related program for atopic dermatitis.
For peanut allergy, our competitors include DBV Technologies, which is developing transdermal products for tolerization of food allergies, while Aimmune Therapeutics is developing oral products for peanut allergy desensitization, including combinations of Aimmune’s oral peanut allergy therapy with dupilumab (Dupixent, Regeneron, Sanofi). 
18

For atopic dermatitis, our competitors include dupilumab (Dupixent, Regeneron, Sanofi), which has been approved by the FDA, crisaborole (EUCRISA, Pfizer), which has recently been approved by the FDA, VTP-38543 (Vitae, acquired by Allergan), which is currently in a Phase 2 trial, and JAK inhibitors including upadacitinib (Abbvie), PF-04965842 (Pfizer) and baricitinib (Eli Lilly and Incyte) currently clinical development for atopic dermatitis.
For GPP and PPP, our competitors include marketed therapies such as secukinumab (Cosentyx; Novartis) which binds IL-17A; ustekinumab (Stelara; Janssen) which blocks IL-12 and 23 cytokine function; and acitretin (Soriatane; Glaxosmithkline), as well as therapies in development such as guselkumab (Janssen) which blocks IL-23 cytokine function, gevokizumab (Xoma 052) and canakinumab (Ilaris, Novartis) which bind IL-1 beta and BI-655130 (Boehringer Ingelheim).
Government Regulation and Product Approval
Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources.
FDA approval process
In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Biological products used for the prevention, treatment, or cure of a disease or condition of a human being are subject to regulation under the FDC Act, except the section of the FDC Act which governs the approval of new drug applications, or NDAs. Biological products are approved for marketing under provisions of the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, via a BLA.  However, the application process and requirements for approval of BLAs are similar to those for NDAs, and biologics are associated with similar approval risks and costs as drugs. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as clinical hold, FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs or BLAs, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution.
Biological product development for a new product or certain changes to an approved product in the United States typically involves preclinical laboratory and animal tests, the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical testing may commence in the United States, and adequate and well- controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the product or disease.
Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation, and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including GLPs.  The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls, and a proposed clinical trial protocol.  Long term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted.  A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans.  If the FDA has neither commented on nor questioned the IND within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin.  Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational biologic to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator.  Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with federal regulations; (ii) in compliance with good clinical practices, or GCPs, an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators, and monitors; as well as (iii) under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated.  Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND.
The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an 
19

unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients.  The trial protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be submitted to an institutional review board, or IRB, for approval.  An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB’s requirements, or may impose other conditions.
Clinical trials to support BLAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap.  In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the biologic into healthy human subjects or patients, the product is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, early evidence on effectiveness.  Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to determine the effectiveness of the drug or biologic for a particular indication, dosage tolerance, and optimal dosage, and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks.  If a compound demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 trials are undertaken to obtain the additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to permit the FDA to evaluate the overall benefit risk relationship of the drug or biologic and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product.  In most cases, the FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the biologic.  A single Phase 3 trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the trial is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible.
After completion of the required clinical testing, a BLA is prepared and submitted to the FDA.  FDA approval of the BLA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The BLA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical, and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product’s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, and controls.  The cost of preparing and submitting a BLA is substantial. The submission of most BLAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the applicant under an approved BLA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. These fees are typically increased annually. The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of a BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review.  Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review.  The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of BLAs.  Most such applications for standard review biologic products are reviewed within ten months of the date the BLA is filed with the FDA; most applications for priority review biologics are reviewed within six months of the date the BLA is filed with the FDA. Priority review can be applied to a biologic that the FDA determines has the potential to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and, if approved, would be a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness compared to available therapies. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission.
The FDA may also refer applications for novel biologic products, or biologic products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an advisory committee—typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts—for review, evaluation, and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved.  The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations.  Before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP.  Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the biologic product is manufactured.  The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMP is satisfactory and the BLA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the biologic is safe, pure, potent and effective in the indication studied.
After the FDA evaluates the BLA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter.  A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing, or information, in order for the FDA to reconsider the application.  If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter.  The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included.  An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the biologic with specific prescribing information for specific indications.  As a condition of BLA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS to help ensure that the benefits of the biologic outweigh the potential risks.  REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU.  ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries.  The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product.  Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy.
20

Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing.  Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new BLA or BLA supplement before the change can be implemented.  A BLA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing BLA supplements as it does in reviewing BLAs.
Foreign clinical studies to support an IND
The FDA will accept as support for an IND a well-designed, well-conducted, non-IND foreign clinical study if it was conducted in accordance with GCP and the FDA is able to validate the data from the study through an onsite inspection, if necessary.  A sponsor or applicant who wishes to rely on a non-IND foreign clinical study to support an IND must submit the following supporting information to the FDA to demonstrate that the study conformed to GCP:

• | the investigator’s qualifications;


• | a description of the research facilities;


• | a detailed summary of the protocol and study results and, if requested, case records or additional background data;


• | a description of the drug substance and drug product, including the components, formulation, specifications, and, if available, the bioavailability of the drug product;


• | information showing that the study is adequate and well controlled;


• | the name and address of the independent ethics committee that reviewed the study and a statement that the independent ethics committee meets the required definition;


• | a summary of the independent ethics committee’s decision to approve or modify and approve the study, or to provide a favorable opinion;


• | a description of how informed consent was obtained;


• | a description of what incentives, if any, were provided to subjects to participate;


• | a description of how the sponsors monitored the study and ensured that the study was consistent with the protocol;


• | a description of how investigators were trained to comply with GCP and to conduct the study in accordance with the study protocol; and


• | a statement on whether written commitments by investigators to comply with GCP and the protocol were obtained.

Orphan drug designation
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to biological products intended to treat a rare disease or condition—generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or if it affects more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a product available in the United States for such disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product.
Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA.  After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the biological product and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA.  Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.  The first BLA applicant to receive FDA approval for a biological product containing a particular active moiety to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for that product for that indication.  During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market a biological product containing the same active moiety for the same disease, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity.  A product is clinically superior if it is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care.  Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug or biological product for the same disease or condition, or the same biological product for a different disease or condition.  Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the BLA user fee.
21

Disclosure of clinical trial information
Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including biological products, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information.  Information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, trial sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial is then made public as part of the registration.  Sponsors are also obligated to discuss the results of their clinical trials after completion.  Disclosure of the results of these trials can be delayed in certain circumstances for up to two years after the date of completion of the trial.  Competitors may use this publicly available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs.
Pediatric information
Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, NDAs or BLAs or supplements to NDAs or BLAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the biological product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the biological product is safe and effective.  The FDA may grant full or partial waivers, or deferrals, for submission of data.  Unless otherwise required by regulation, the PREA does not apply to any biological product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted.
Additional controls for biologics
To help reduce the increased risk of the introduction of adventitious agents, the PHSA emphasizes the importance of manufacturing controls for products whose attributes cannot be precisely defined.  The PHSA also provides authority to the FDA to immediately suspend licenses in situations where there exists a danger to public health, to prepare or procure products in the event of shortages and critical public health needs, and to authorize the creation and enforcement of regulations to prevent the introduction or spread of communicable diseases in the United States and between states.
After a BLA is approved, the product may also be subject to official lot release as a condition of approval.  As part of the manufacturing process, the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product before it is released for distribution.  If the product is subject to official release by the FDA, the manufacturer submits samples of each lot of product to the FDA together with a release protocol showing a summary of the history of manufacture of the lot and the results of all of the manufacturer’s tests performed on the lot.  The FDA may also perform certain confirmatory tests on lots of some products, such as viral vaccines, before releasing the lots for distribution by the manufacturer.
In addition, the FDA conducts laboratory research related to the regulatory standards on the safety, purity, potency, and effectiveness of biological products.  As with drugs, after approval of biologics, manufacturers must address any safety issues that arise, are subject to recalls or a halt in manufacturing, and are subject to periodic inspection after approval.
Patent term restoration
After approval, owners of relevant drug or biologic patents may apply for up to a five year patent extension.  The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug’s testing phase—the time between IND application and NDA or BLA submission—and all of the review phase—the time between NDA or BLA submission and approval up to a maximum of five years.  The time can be shortened if FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence.  The total patent term after the extension may not exceed 14 years.
For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension.  An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times.  For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year.  The director of the USPTO must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely.  Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug or biologic for which an NDA or BLA has not been submitted.
Biosimilars
The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, creates an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be highly similar to or interchangeable with an FDA licensed reference biological product.  Biosimilarity sufficient to reference a prior FDA-approved product requires that there be no differences in conditions of use, route of administration, dosage form, and strength, and no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency.  Biosimilarity must be shown through analytical trials, animal trials, and a clinical trial or trials, unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services waives a required element.  A 
22

biosimilar product may be deemed interchangeable with a prior approved product if it meets the higher hurdle of demonstrating that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times, the biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic.  To date, a handful of biosimilar products and no interchangeable products have been approved under the BPCIA.  Complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the process by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation, which is still being evaluated by the FDA.
A reference biologic is granted 12 years of exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the reference product, and no application for a biosimilar can be submitted for four years from the date of licensure of the reference product. The first biologic product submitted under the abbreviated approval pathway that is determined to be interchangeable with the reference product has exclusivity against a finding of interchangeability for other biologics for the same condition of use for the lesser of (i) one year after first commercial marketing of the first interchangeable biosimilar, (ii) 18 months after the first interchangeable biosimilar is approved if there is no patent challenge, (iii) 18 months after resolution of a lawsuit over the patents of the reference biologic in favor of the first interchangeable biosimilar applicant, or (iv) 42 months after the first interchangeable biosimilar’s application has been approved if a patent lawsuit is ongoing within the 42-month period.
Post-approval requirements
Once a BLA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of biologics, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Biologics may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling.
Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following FDA approval of a BLA. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS, and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product, or the FDA may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality control, biological product manufacture, packaging, and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs after approval.  Biologic manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMPs.  Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing, or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered.
FDA regulation of companion diagnostics
If use of an in vitro diagnostic is essential to safe and effective use of a drug or biologic product, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic, known as a companion diagnostic, at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product.  The review of an in vitro companion diagnostic in conjunction with the review of a biologic involves coordination of review by the FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and by the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Pursuing FDA approval of an in vitro companion diagnostic would require us to obtain a
pre-market approval, or PMA. The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and preclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years or longer.  It involves a rigorous premarket review during which the applicant must prepare and provide the FDA with reasonable assurance of the device’s safety and effectiveness and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling.  PMA applications are subject to an application fee, which exceeds $250,000 for most PMAs.  In addition, PMAs for certain devices must generally include the results from extensive preclinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the device for each indication for which FDA approval is sought.  In particular, for a diagnostic, the applicant must demonstrate that the diagnostic produces reproducible results when the same sample is tested multiple times by multiple users at multiple laboratories.  As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer’s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which imposes elaborate testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements.
PMA approval is not guaranteed, and the FDA may ultimately respond to a PMA application submission with a not approvable determination based on deficiencies in the application and require additional clinical trial or other data that may be expensive and time-consuming to generate and that can substantially delay approval.  If the FDA’s evaluation of the PMA 
23

application is favorable, the FDA typically issues an approvable letter requiring the applicant’s agreement to specific conditions, such as changes in labeling, or specific additional information, such as submission of final labeling, in order to secure final approval of the PMA.  If the FDA concludes that the applicable criteria have been met, the FDA will issue a PMA for the approved indications, which can be more limited than those originally sought by the applicant.  The PMA can include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution.
After a device is placed on the market, it remains subject to significant regulatory requirements.  Medical devices may be marketed only for the uses and indications for which they are cleared or approved.  Device manufacturers must also establish registration and device listings with the FDA.  A medical device manufacturer’s manufacturing processes and those of its suppliers are required to comply with the applicable portions of the QSR, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of medical devices.  Domestic facility records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA.  The FDA also may inspect foreign facilities that export products to the United States.
Other U.S. healthcare laws and compliance requirements
In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including but not limited to, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (such as the Office of Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the DOJ, and state and local governments.  For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs may have to comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the false claims laws, the privacy and security provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and similar state laws, each as amended, as applicable.
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs.  The term remuneration has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value.  The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other.  There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution.  The exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor.  Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute.  Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances.  Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for protection under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor.
Additionally, the intent standard under the Anti-Kickback Statute was amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.  In addition, the ACA codified case law that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti- Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act (discussed below).
The civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person or entity that, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent.
Federal false claims and false statement laws, including the federal False Claims Act, prohibit, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government.  As a result of a modification made by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, a claim includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the U.S. government.  Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product.  Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies’ marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus generally non-reimbursable, uses.
24

HIPAA created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any money or property owned by, or under the control or custody of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device, a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.  Like the Anti-Kickback Statute, the ACA amended the intent standard for certain healthcare fraud statutes under HIPAA such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.
Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor.  Additionally, to the extent that our product is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws.
We may be subject to data privacy and security regulations by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.  HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.  Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA’s privacy and security standards directly applicable to business associates, independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity.  HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce HIPAA and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.  In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.
Additionally, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the ACA, and its implementing regulations, require that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to CMS information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.  Moreover, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act imposes new obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products related to product tracking and tracing.  Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products.
In order to distribute products commercially, we must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of drug and biological products in a state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state.  Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain.  Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices.  All of our activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws.
If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state healthcare laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including without limitation, civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, injunctions, private “qui tam” actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into government contracts, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.
Coverage, pricing and reimbursement
25

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval.  In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend, in part, on the extent to which third- party payors provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for such products.  In the United States, third-party payors include federal and state healthcare programs, private managed care providers, health insurers and other organizations.  The process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price of a product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that such a payor will pay for the product.  Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication.  Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products, therapies and services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy.  We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals.  Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective.  A payor’s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved.  Further, one payor’s determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the product.  Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.
Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries.  In the EU, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers.  Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed.  To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies.  Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits.  The downward pressure on health care costs has become intense.  As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products.  In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country.
The marketability of any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement.  In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on healthcare pricing.  Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time.  Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
Healthcare reform
Government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. They are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process (including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria). In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, was enacted in the United States. This legislation imposes cost-containment and other measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our current and future products. The full effects of this legislation depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including new regulations and guidance issued by CMS and other federal and state agencies. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices and reimbursement of prescription drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any prescription drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform measures in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products.
Some of the provisions of the ACA have yet to be implemented and there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. In addition, the current administration and Congress have previously sought, and will likely continue to seek, legislative and regulatory changes, including repeal and replacement of all or certain provisions of the ACA. While Congress has not passed repeal legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing,
effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to
maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the “individual mandate”. Congress
26

may consider other legislation to repeal or replace elements of the ACA.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business.  The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring us to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.
Additional regulation
In addition to the foregoing, we are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Resource Conservancy and Recovery Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act.  These and other laws govern our use, handling and disposal of various biological, chemical and radioactive substances used in, and wastes generated by, our operations.  If our operations result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and governmental fines.  We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and that continued compliance therewith will not have a material adverse effect on our business.  We cannot predict, however, how changes in these laws may affect our future operations.
Europe / rest of world government regulation
In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products.  Whether or not we obtain FDA approval of a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries.  Certain countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical trial application much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials.  In the United Kingdom and other countries in the EU, for example, a CTA must be submitted to each country’s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively.  Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country’s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed.  Because biologically sourced raw materials are subject to unique contamination risks, their use may be restricted in some countries.  The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country.  In all cases, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug or biological product under EU regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application.  The application used to file the BLA in the United States is similar to that required in the EU, with the exception of, among other things, country-specific document requirements.  For other countries outside of the EU, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country.  In all cases, again, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
If we or our potential collaborators fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Australia
Conducting clinical trials for therapeutic drug candidates in Australia is subject to regulation by Australian governmental entities.  Approval for inclusion in the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods, or the ARTG, is required before a pharmaceutical drug product may be marketed in Australia.
Typically, the process of obtaining approval of a new therapeutic drug product for inclusion in the ARTG requires compilation of clinical trial data.  Clinical trials conducted using “unapproved therapeutic goods” in Australia, being those 
27

which have not yet been evaluated by the TGA for quality, safety and efficacy must occur pursuant to either the Clinical Trial Notification, or CTN, or Clinical Trial Exemption, or CTX, process.
The CTN process broadly involves:

• | completion of pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing;


• | submission to a Human Research Ethics Committee, or the HREC, of all material relating to the proposed clinical trial, including the trial protocol. The TGA does not review any data relating to the clinical trial; 


• | the institution or organisation at which the trial will be conducted, referred to as the “Approving Authority” gives the final approval for the conduct of the trial at the site, having due regard to the advice from the HREC; and


• | CTN trials cannot commence until the trial has been notified to the TGA.

Under the CTX process:

• | a sponsor submits an application to conduct a clinical trial to the TGA for evaluation and comment; and


• | a sponsor cannot commence a CTX trial until written advice has been received from the TGA regarding the application and approval for the conduct of the trial has been obtained from an ethics committee and the institution at which the trial will be conducted.

In each case, it is required that:

• | adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of the therapeutic product;


• | evidence is compiled which demonstrates that the manufacture of the therapeutic drug product complies with the principles of cGMP;


• | manufacturing and clinical data is derived to submit to the Australian Committee on Prescription Medicines, which makes recommendations to the TGA as to whether or not to grant approval to include the therapeutic drug product in the ARTG; and


• | an ultimate decision is made by the TGA whether to include the therapeutic drug product in the ARTG.

Pre-clinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the therapeutic drug product as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the drug.  The results of the pre-clinical studies form part of the materials submitted to the investigators HREC in the case of a CTN trial and part of the application to the TGA in the case of a CTX trial.
Clinical trials involve administering the investigational product to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator.  The TGA has developed guidelines for a CTN.  Under the CTN process, all material relating to the proposed trial is submitted directly to the HREC of each institution at which the trial is to be conducted.  An HREC is an independent review committee set up under guidelines of the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council.  The role of an HREC is to ensure the protection of rights, safety and wellbeing of human subjects involved in a clinical trial by, among other things, reviewing, approving and providing continuing review of trial protocols and amendments, and of the methods and material to be used in obtaining and documenting informed consent of the trial subjects.  The TGA is formally notified by submission of a CTN application but does not review the safety of the drug or any aspect of the proposed trial.  The approving authority of each institution gives the final approval for the conduct of the clinical trial, having due regard to advice from the HREC.  Following approval, responsibility for all aspects of the trial conducted under a CTN application remains with the HREC of each investigator’s institution.
The standards for clinical research in Australia are set by the TGA and the National Health and Medical Research Council, and compliance with GCP is mandatory.  Guidelines, such as those promulgated by the International Conference on Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, or ICH, are required across all fields, including those related to pharmaceutical quality, nonclinical and clinical data requirements and study designs.  The basic requirements for preclinical data to support a first-in- human study under ICH guidelines are applicable in Australia.  Requirements related to adverse event reporting in Australia are similar to those required in other major jurisdictions.
28

Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 60 full-time employees.  Of these employees, 48 were primarily engaged in research and development activities and 10 have an M.D. or a Ph.D.  None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good.
Financial Information
We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. Financial information regarding our operations, assets and liabilities, including our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and our total assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, is included in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II Item 8 of this Annual Report.
Corporate Information
We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in November 2005. Our principal executive offices are located at 10421 Pacific Center Court, Suite 200, San Diego, California 92121, and our telephone number is (858) 362-6295. Our website address is www.anaptysbio.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this report.
Available Information
We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Our filings with the SEC are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on our website under the “Investors” tab as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read and copy, at SEC prescribed rates, any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.
