Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.    Business
General
Noodles & Company is a restaurant concept offering lunch and dinner within the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry. We opened our first location in Denver, Colorado in 1995, offering noodle and pasta dishes, staples of many cuisines, with the goal of delivering fresh ingredients and flavors from around the world under one roof. Today, our globally inspired menu includes a wide variety of high quality, cooked-to-order dishes, including noodles and pasta, soups, salads and appetizers. We believe that we offer our customers value, with per person spend of $8.81 for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2018.
We offer nearly 20 globally inspired dishes together on a single menu that can be enjoyed inside our restaurants, taken to-go, or, in some areas, delivered to our customers. We believe we will benefit from trends in consumer preferences such as the broader demand for international cuisines and the increasing desire for convenience. At many restaurants, customers are limited to a particular ethnic cuisine or type of dish, such as a sandwich, burrito or burger. At Noodles & Company, we aim to eliminate the “veto vote” by satisfying the preferences of a wide range of customers, whether a family or parent with kids, a group of coworkers, an individual or a large party.
We believe that our globally inspired menu, focused on noodle and pasta dishes, differentiates us from other restaurants. We believe our attributes—global flavors, variety, dishes prepared-to-order and fast service—allow us to compete against multiple segments throughout the restaurant industry and provide us a larger addressable market for lunch and dinner than competitors who focus on a single cuisine. We believe we provide a pleasant dining experience by quickly delivering fresh food with friendly service at a price point we believe is attractive to our customers. We also believe that our menu is well suited for off-premise dining occasions in which customers order at our restaurant or online but then eat their meal at their home or office.
Noodles & Company is a Delaware corporation that was organized in 2002. Noodles & Company and its subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” in this report. We refer to our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, as our “Class A common stock,” unless the context otherwise requires. We refer to our Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, as our “Class B common stock,” unless the context otherwise requires. We refer to our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock together as our “common stock.” The rights of the holders of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock are identical in all respects, except that our Class B common stock does not vote on the election or removal of directors unless and until converted on a share for share basis into Class A common stock.
Our Concept and Business Strengths
Variety. We have purposefully chosen a range of healthy to indulgent dishes to satisfy multiple dietary preferences. Our menu encourages customers to customize their meals to meet their tastes and nutritional preferences with our selection of 14 fresh vegetables and seven proteins.
All of our dishes are cooked-to-order with fresh, high quality ingredients sourced from our carefully selected suppliers. Our commitment to the freshness of our ingredients is further demonstrated by our use of seasonal ingredients and healthy add-in options (such as organic tofu). Our culinary team strives to develop new dishes and limited time offerings to further reinforce our World Kitchen brand positioning and regularly provide our customers additional options. For example, during 2017 we offered as new dishes or limited time offerings items such as Thai Green Curry, Spicy Chipotle Adobo and Truffle Mac & Cheese. This focus on culinary innovation allows us to prepare and serve high quality food and meet changing consumer trends.
Value. The value we offer, the quality of our food and the welcoming ambiance of our restaurants creates an overall customer experience that we believe is unique and differentiated. Our per person spend is competitive not only within the fast-casual segment, but also within the quick-service segment. We deliver value by combining a family-friendly dining environment with the opportunity to enjoy many dishes containing a variety of fresh ingredients. We also offer Kids Meals which, at a fixed low price, offer the opportunity for parents to feed their children a balanced meal with sides such as broccoli, carrots, fruit, applesauce and a smaller portion of our house made rice crispy treat.

Our Restaurant Experience. We design each location individually, which we believe creates an inviting restaurant environment. We believe the ambiance is warm and welcoming, with muted lighting and colors, comfortable seating and our own custom music mix, which is intended to make our customers feel relaxed and at home. 
We believe we deliver an exceptional overall dining experience. We believe that our customers should expect not only great food from our restaurants, but also warm hospitality and attentive service. Whether you are a parent with kids or a businessperson with a laptop, you simply order your food, grab a drink and take a seat. We cook each dish to order in approximately five minutes and bring the food right to your table. Our customers may enjoy a relaxed meal or just eat and run. 
We also believe that our experience meets consumers’ increasing desire for speed and convenience. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from customers who consume their meal off-premise, either by ordering at the restaurant and taking the food to go or by ordering ahead of time through online, phone-in and delivery channels.
Consistent with our culture of enhanced customer service, we seek to hire individuals who will deliver prompt, attentive service by engaging customers the moment they enter our restaurants. Our training philosophy empowers both our restaurant managers and team members to add a personal touch when serving our customers, such as coming out from behind the counter to explain our menu and guide customers to the right dish. Our restaurant managers are critical to our success, as we believe that their entrepreneurial spirit and outreach efforts build our brand in our communities. We call our cashiers “Noodle Ambassadors” to highlight their role in helping our customers explore our global menu. After our customers order at the counter, their food is delivered to their table by our friendly team members. 
Our Operational Strategy 
We believe our brand and globally inspired menu resonates with consumers, and we believe our restaurants and team members provide customers a unique and high-quality experience. We are focused on offering customers flavorful, cooked-to-order dishes in a warm and welcoming environment at an attractive value. 
In order to improve our profitability and earnings, as well as deliver an exceptional dining experience, in 2017 we enacted initiatives to enhance our menu offerings and improve our operational consistency. We also closed a group of underperforming restaurants that had been negatively impacting our profitability. We continue to execute on a strategy, outlined herein, to improve the operational and financial performance of our restaurant base.
Restaurant initiatives. Our plan to improve our performance includes the following four key strategies:

• | Focusing on our global flavors and menu offerings. We believe that our globally inspired menu, focused on noodle and pasta dishes, differentiates us from other restaurants. We also believe this global variety, which includes a range of healthy to indulgent dishes that are cooked to order with fresh, high-quality ingredients, remains a competitive strength. In 2017 our limited-time offers included Spicy Chipotle Adobo and Thai Green Curry with shrimp, both of which are new dishes with distinctive flavor profiles. Also, in October of 2017 we launched nationally a Macaroni & Cheese menu which incorporated a higher quality cheese sauce into our top-selling Wisconsin Mac & Cheese. With this launch we also featured a Buffalo Mac & Cheese, Truffle Mac & Cheese and Barbecue Pork Mac. While we will continue to execute on our culinary initiatives we also believe that we have opportunities to better communicate our positioning to our customers, both inside our restaurants and through digital, social and media outlets.


• | Improving efficiencies and unit-level margins. We believe that there is significant opportunity to improve our operational consistency as well as our overall unit level margins. In October 2016, we reduced the size of our core menu from 28 entrée items to 19 entrée items, removing menu items that did not sell well and were challenging for our teams to execute. During 2017, we improved several processes inside our restaurants, such as the introduction of a produce chopper to improve consistency and labor efficiency in our restaurants. We believe we have additional opportunity to improve efficiencies in our business and economic models. As an example, in 2018 we intend to complete the national roll out of self-bussing stations, which we believe will reduce labor hours and improve cleanliness in our restaurants. We also believe that we have opportunity in our supply chain and food preparation procedures to reduce inbound ingredient costs and improve labor efficiency.


• | Enhancing convenience for our customers. We believe there is significant opportunity in increasing convenience for our customers. In 2017, we launched nationally our NoodlesREWARDS program, a loyalty program that also allows our


customers the convenience of ordering their favorites quickly and easily as they earn rewards for free or discounted food. We have also begun a national rollout of dedicated pick-up areas for customers who order and pay ahead so that they can have a faster and more convenient takeout experience. Finally, we have continued to expand our delivery program through select third party providers, which offers an additional level of convenience for our customers.

• | Improving manager selection, training and development of our teams. We have increased the focus on the selection, training and development of our restaurant teams. We have initiated the use of new assessment tools in management hiring, and we have implemented certain changes to our restaurant compensation program to encourage team member retention. We have also begun rolling out new training tools and learning management systems to improve execution and encourage career development within our teams. Finally, we have begun a thorough, disciplined process of sharing best practices throughout the organization.

Restaurant Portfolio and Franchising
Restaurant Portfolio. As of January 2, 2018, we had 412 company-owned restaurants and 66 franchise restaurants in 29 states and the District of Columbia. Our restaurants are typically 2,600 to 2,700 square feet and are located in end-cap, in-line or free-standing locations across a variety of urban and suburban markets. During the near-term we anticipate limited unit growth as we allow time for our operational, financial and customer initiatives to become effective. We also anticipate that during this period we will be able to test and define a prototype for new restaurants that will better facilitate future expansion and better meet the needs of the changing consumer experience. 
Over the past two years, we announced and executed our strategy to close underperforming restaurants and reduce restaurant growth. We also announced plans to refranchise restaurants in certain of our markets. We continue to expect that we will refranchise restaurants in selected markets in the future, but do not anticipate significant refranchising transactions to occur in 2018.
Restaurant Closings. We closed 55 restaurants in the first quarter of 2017. These restaurants significantly underperformed our restaurant averages, as measured by average unit volumes (“AUVs”), restaurant contribution margin and cash flow. Many of these restaurants were open for only the last three or four years in newer markets where brand awareness of our restaurants was not as strong and where it has been more difficult to adequately staff our restaurants. Our closing of these restaurants has had a favorable effect on our restaurant contribution, restaurant contribution margin, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and net income.
Reduction in Corporate Restaurant Growth. We continue to reduce our rate of company-owned restaurant unit growth. In 2017, we opened 12 company-owned restaurants and in 2018, we plan to open between one and four company-owned restaurants. We did not open restaurants in new markets in 2017 and do not intend to open restaurants in new markets in 2018; our openings in 2017 were, and in 2018 will primarily be, in well-established markets where we maintain strong brand awareness and restaurant-level financial performance that generally exceeds company averages. We believe this more moderate growth strategy will enhance our ability to focus on improving restaurant operations and profitability. We will continue to evaluate our company-owned restaurant growth rate based on our operational and financial performance, capital resources and real estate opportunities.
Franchising. As of January 2, 2018, we had 66 franchise units in 14 states operated by 12 franchisees. In 2017, our franchisees opened three restaurants and closed 12 restaurants. We look for experienced, well-capitalized franchise partners who are able to leverage their existing infrastructure and local knowledge in a manner that benefits both our franchisees and ourselves. As of January 2, 2018, a total of nine area developers have signed development agreements providing for the opening of 64 additional restaurants in their respective territories. We expect to continue to offer development rights in markets where we do not intend to build company-owned restaurants. We may offer such rights to larger developers who commit to open 10 or more units, or to smaller developers who may commit to open significantly fewer restaurants. We do not currently intend to offer single-unit franchises. We believe the strength and attractiveness of our brand will attract experienced and well-capitalized area developers.
Site Development and Expansion
We consider our site selection and development process critical to our long-term success. We have used a combination of our own internal team and outside real estate consultants to locate, evaluate and negotiate new sites using various criteria. In making site selection decisions, we have also used several analytical tools designed to uncover the key site, demographic, business, retail, competitive and traffic characteristics that drive successful locations.

Once a location has been approved by our executive-level selection committee, we begin a design process to match the characteristics and feel of the location to the trade area. For example, in a trade area with a high percentage of families we will utilize additional booth seating in the dining room, and in an urban location we will typically alter our kitchen design to enhance throughput for the busy lunch hours.
Restaurant Management and Operations
Friendly People. We believe our genuine, friendly people separate us from our competitors. We value the individuality of our team members, which we believe results in a management, operations and training philosophy distinct from that of our competitors. We make an effort to hire team members who share a passion for food, have a competitive spirit and will operate our restaurants in a way that is consistent with our high standards. We seek to hire individuals who will deliver prompt, attentive service by engaging customers the moment they enter our restaurants. We empower our team members to enrich the experience of our customers and directly address any concerns that may arise in a manner that contributes to the success of our business.
Restaurant Management and Employees. Each restaurant typically has a restaurant manager, an assistant manager and as many as 15 to 25 team members. We cross-train our employees in an effort to create a depth of competency in our critical restaurant functions. Consistent with our emphasis on customer interaction, we encourage our restaurant managers and team members to welcome and interact with customers throughout their visit. To lead our restaurant management teams, we have area managers (each of whom is responsible for between five and 12 restaurants), as well as regional directors (each of whom is responsible for between 50 and 80 restaurants).
Training and Career Development. We believe that our training efforts create a culture of continuous learning and professional growth that allows our team members to continue their career development with us. Within each restaurant, two to four team members are designated to lead the training efforts and ensure a consistent approach to team member development. We produce training materials that encourage individual contributions and participation from our team members while also requiring adherence to certain guidelines and procedures.
Food Preparation and Quality. Our teams use classic professional cooking methods, including par boiling and sautéing many of our vegetables, in full kitchens resembling those of full service restaurants. All team members, including our restaurant managers, spend their first several days working solely with food and learning these techniques, and we spend a significant amount of time ensuring that each team member learns how to prepare and cook our food properly. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, we believe that we produce food with an efficiency that enables us to compete effectively.
The majority of our restaurants have exhibition-style kitchens. This design demonstrates our commitment to cooking fresh food in an accessible manner. We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way.
All of our dishes are cooked to order at food safe temperatures or, in the case of salads, subject to our produce washing protocols, which helps to ensure that the food that we serve to our customers is safe. We have designed our food safety and quality assurance programs to maintain high standards for our food and food preparation procedures. Our quality assurance manager oversees comprehensive restaurant and supplier audits based upon the potential food safety risk of each food. We also consider food safety and quality assurance when selecting our distributors and suppliers. Our suppliers are inspected by federal, state and local regulators or other reputable, qualified inspection services, which helps ensure their compliance with all federal food safety and quality guidelines. We regularly inspect our suppliers to ensure that the ingredients we buy conform to our quality standards and that the prices we pay are competitive. We also rely on our own recipes, specifications and protocols to ensure that our food is consistently the best quality that is possible when it is served, including a physical examination of ingredients when they arrive at our restaurants. We train our employees to pay detailed attention to food quality at every stage of the food preparation cycle, and we have developed a daily checklist that our employees use to assess the freshness and quality of food supplies. Finally, we encourage our customers to provide feedback regarding our food quality so that we can identify and resolve problems or concerns as quickly as possible. 
Restaurant Marketing
Our marketing efforts seek to increase sales through a variety of channels and initiatives. Community-based restaurant marketing, as well as online, social and other media tools, highlight our competitive strengths, including our varied and healthy menu offerings and the value we offer our customers.

• | Our Menu Offerings. We focus some of our marketing efforts on new menu offerings to broaden our appeal to our customers. We promote these items through a variety of formats including market-wide public relations events, social media marketing, radio promotions, tastings and messaging to our NoodlesREWARDS members. In addition to increasing brand awareness, these promotions also encourage prompt consumer action, resulting in more immediate increases in our customer traffic.


• | Online, Social and Other Media Tools. We rely on our website, www.noodles.com, to promote our business and increase brand awareness. The information on or available through our website is not, and should not be considered, a part of this report. Our customers are encouraged to sign up to receive communications through our NoodlesREWARDS program, updating them on new menu offerings and promotional opportunities. As of January 2, 2018, more than 1.8 million of our customers have signed up to receive communication either through our rewards or e-club programs. We also communicate with our customers using social media, such as our Facebook and Instagram pages, our YouTube and Vimeo channels and our Twitter feed. Our media tools also include advertising and direct mail in local, regional and national print/online media and mass communications including radio and out of home. In July 2017, we launched our NoodlesREWARDS program nationally which has provided a significant opportunity to create deeper relationships with our customers and increase frequency and average spend. Our online and social media engagement provides exciting opportunities to engage with our customers.


• | Digital Advertising. We use targeted digital advertising in many of our markets. We believe this helps to increase top of mind awareness with potential customers and drives both frequency and trial. In addition, digital advertising provides us with the opportunity to promote specific product platforms and offerings such as online ordering.


• | Creating New Meal Occasions. We also focus on ways Noodles & Company can serve customers at different times and in new places. For example, our Kids Meal menu was created for the future foodies of the world, children aged ten and under are invited to design their own meal made fresh-to-order, with quality ingredients, by choosing their entrée, two sides and a drink for around $5. Customers who want to feed a large group can enjoy our catering options comprised of main entrées, sides and desserts. We market these offerings in a variety of ways, including through in-restaurant posters, email, NoodlesREWARDS messages, Facebook posts and other communications outside of our restaurants.


• | Making Noodles & Company Easier to Use. Some of our marketing efforts focus on making our restaurants easier to use. We seek to deliver superior customer service at every opportunity, generating consumer awareness of menu offerings with in-restaurant communications such as displays of our menu offerings that are visible upon entry and table top cards that highlight healthy food offerings. We also continue to implement initiatives to improve convenience for our customers, such as expanding the availability of third party delivery and introducing dedicated pick-up shelving units to increase the speed of the to-go transaction.

Suppliers
Maintaining a high degree of quality in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. We carefully select suppliers based on quality and their understanding of our brand, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols. We have tried to increase, in some cases, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility, and we monitor industry news, trade issues, weather, crises and other world events that may affect supply prices. In addition, a substantial volume of our produce items are grown in Mexico and other countries and any new or increased import duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in U.S. trade or tax policy, could result in higher food and supply costs. 
Seasonality
Seasonal factors and the timing of holidays cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue per restaurant is typically lower in the first and fourth quarters, due to reduced winter and holiday traffic, and higher in the second and third quarters. 
Competition
We face competition from the casual dining, quick-service and fast casual segments of the restaurant industry. These segments are highly competitive with respect to taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location and the ambience and condition of each restaurant, among other things. Our competition includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains 

who offer dine-in, carry-out and delivery services. Many of our competitors have existed longer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. Among our competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market fast casual restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. As we expand, we will face competition from these concepts and new competitors that strive to compete with our market segments. 
We also face competition from firms outside the restaurant industry, such as grocery stores and home meal replacement services, who sell prepared meals for takeout and in some cases, offer delivery service.
Intellectual Property and Trademarks
We own a number of trademarks and service marks registered or pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”). The marks we have registered with the PTO include the following: Noodles & Company, the Noodles & Company logo, Your World Kitchen, Noodles & Company World Kitchen, Noodles World Kitchen, Noodles Rewards and Wisconsin Mac & Cheese. We also have certain trademarks registered or pending in certain foreign countries. In addition, we have registered the Internet domain name www.noodles.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights have significant value and are important to the marketing of our brand, and it is our policy to protect and defend vigorously our rights to such intellectual property.
Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters
We are subject to extensive and varied federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations relating to public and occupational health and safety, sanitation and fire prevention. We operate each of our restaurants in accordance with standards and procedures designed to comply with applicable codes and regulations. However, an inability to obtain or retain health department or other licenses could adversely affect our operations. Although we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, any significant difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any such problem could delay or prevent the opening of, or adversely impact the viability of, a particular restaurant or group of restaurants.
In addition, in order to develop and construct restaurants, we need to comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Federal and state environmental regulations have not had a material effect on our operations to date, but more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or even prevent construction and increase development costs for new restaurants. We are also required to comply with the accessibility standards mandated by the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), which generally prohibits discrimination in accommodation or employment based on disability. We may in the future have to modify restaurants, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. While these expenses could be material, our current expectation is that any such actions will not require us to expend substantial funds.
In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, the U.S. Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and various other federal and state laws governing similar matters including minimum wages, overtime, workplace safety and other working conditions. Our failure to fully comply with these laws could subject us to potential litigation and liability. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to our current and any future franchise operations.
We are also subject to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “PPACA”), which requires health care coverage for many previously uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. We began offering such benefits in 2015. It is possible that legislation will be passed by Congress and signed into law that repeals the PPACA, in whole or in part, and/or introduces a new form of health care reform. It is unclear at this point what the scope of any such legislation will be and when it would become effective. Because of the uncertainty surrounding possible replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the PPACA’s repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the U.S., there may be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the Company’s health care expenditures may increase. 
We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning waste disposal, pollution, protection of the environment and the presence, discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous or toxic substances (“environmental laws”). These environmental laws can provide for significant fines and penalties for non-compliance and liabilities for remediation, sometimes without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the 

release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. We are not aware of any environmental laws that will materially affect our earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures relating to our restaurants. However, we cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered, interpreted or enforced, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws. It is possible that we will become subject to environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Management Information Systems
We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each restaurant, and within our central support office infrastructure. All of our restaurants use computerized management information systems, which we believe are scalable to support any future growth plans. We use point-of-sale (“POS”) computers designed specifically for the restaurant industry. Our POS system provides a touch screen interface, a graphical order confirmation display and integrated, high-speed credit card and gift card processing. Our online ordering system allows customers to place orders online or through our mobile app. Orders taken remotely are routed to the point-of-sale system based on the time of customer order pickup. The POS system is used to collect daily transaction data, which generates information about daily sales, product mix and average check that we actively analyze. All products sold and prices at our company-owned restaurants are programmed into the system from our central support office. We also continue to modernize and make investments in our information technology networks and infrastructure, specifically in our physical and technological security measures to anticipate cyber-attacks and prevent breaches, such as the data security incident we experienced in 2016, and to provide improved control, security and scalability. Enhancing the security of our financial data, customer information and other personal information is a high priority for us. 
Our in-restaurant back office computer system is designed to assist in the management of our restaurants and provide labor and food cost management tools. These tools provide restaurant operations management and our central support office quick access to detailed business data and reduces restaurant managers’ administrative time. The system provides our restaurant managers the ability to submit orders electronically with our distribution network. The system also supplies sales, bank deposit and variance data to our accounting department on a daily basis. We use this data to generate daily sales information and weekly consolidated reports regarding sales and other key measures. 
Franchisees use similar point of sale systems and are required to report sales on a daily basis through an on-line reporting network and submit their restaurant-level financial statements on a quarterly or annual basis.
Financial Information About Segments
We operate as a single accounting segment. Financial information related to our business is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Employees
As of January 2, 2018, we had approximately 9,600 employees, including approximately 500 salaried employees and approximately 9,100 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our current employee relations to be good.
Available Information 
We maintain a website at www.noodles.com, including an investor relations section at investor.noodles.com, on which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls, and any related materials. You may access our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 
7


The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
Executive Officers of the Registrant

Name | Age(1) | Position 
Dave Boennighausen | 40 | Chief Executive Officer 
Paul Murphy | 63 | Executive Chairman 
Susan Daggett | 57 | Interim Chief Financial Officer 
Chas Hermann | 55 | Chief Brand Officer 
Brad West | 60 | Executive Vice President of Operations
Kathy Lockhart | 53 | Vice President and Controller 

_____________

(1) | As of March 15, 2018

Dave Boennighausen has served as our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) since June 2017 and as interim CEO from July 2016 through June 2017. He has been a member of our Board of Directors since August 2015. Mr. Boennighausen served as our Chief Financial Officer from July 2012 through his appointment as permanent CEO in June 2017. He has held various roles at the Company, including Vice President of Finance and Executive Vice President of Finance, since joining the Company in 2004. He began his career with May Department Stores. He holds an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and received a BS degree in Finance and Marketing from Truman State University.
Paul J.B. Murphy III became our Executive Chairman in July 2017. Mr. Murphy previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Del Taco Restaurants, Inc., a national operator and franchisor of fast casual restaurants from February 2009 to July 2017 (and as President from February 2009 to December 2016). From 1996 to 2008, Mr. Murphy held various roles with Einstein Noah Restaurant Group, Inc. (“Einstein’s”). Mr. Murphy originally joined Einstein’s as Senior Vice President, Operations in 1997. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, Operations in 1998, and to Chief Operating Officer in 2002. In 2003, he was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Murphy holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Religious Studies from Washington & Lee University.
Susan Daggett has served as our interim Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) since June 2017 and as our Vice President of Finance since August 2016. Ms. Daggett has extensive experience in the restaurant industry having served as Executive Vice President of Smiling Moose Franco, LLC, from March 2016 through July 2016, and President of Smiling Moose Deli Franchise Company from November 2013 to March 2016. Ms. Daggett was Owner and President of Nuthatch Hill Consulting, LLC, which focused on the retail and real estate industries, from January 2005 to October 2013. Prior to that time, she held various executive positions at Einstein’s as well as financial roles at Arby’s Inc. and Burger King Corporation. She received a BS in Business Administration, with an emphasis in Accounting, from the University of Northern Iowa.
Chas Hermann has served as our Chief Brand Officer since March 2018. Prior to joining us, Mr. Hermann provided consulting services through Chas Hermann Consulting, a consulting services company he founded in 2008, with a focus on marketing, brand strategy, product development and finance in high growth organizations. Through his consulting business he worked with Papa Murphy’s, Del Taco and Redbox among others. His prior experience included executive marketing and merchandising positions with The Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf, Commerce Bank, Starbucks Coffee Company and Universal Studios, Inc. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from the University of Florida.
Brad West has served as our Executive Vice President of Operations since September 2017. Mr. West has an extensive background in operations in the restaurant industry over the past 40 years. Prior to joining us, he served as Vice President, Operations of Smoothie King Franchises, Inc. Prior to that role, he was Chief Operating Officer of ACG Pizza Partners LLC, and he had earlier spent 15 years at Einstein’s, most recently as Senior Vice President, Non-Traditional Business, where he was responsible for the operations, development and growth of over 250 Einstein Bros. Bagels license locations. Mr. West also held key operational roles at CEC Entertainment, Inc., Applebee’s International, Inc. franchise groups, and S&A Restaurant Corporation.
Kathy Lockhart has served as our Vice President and Controller since August 2006. Prior to joining us, Ms. Lockhart served as the Vice President and Controller of several public and private restaurant and retail companies, including Einstein’s, Boston Market, VICORP (parent company of Village Inn and Bakers Square restaurants) and Ultimate Electronics. She received a BA degree in 

Business Administration and Political Science from Western Colorado State University, and she is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
