Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
 
On January 5, 2018, we changed our name to XpresSpa Group, Inc. (“XpresSpa Group” or the “Company”) from FORM Holdings Corp. Our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, which had previously been listed under the trading symbol “FH” on the Nasdaq Capital Market, has been listed under the trading symbol “XSPA” since January 8, 2018.
 
Rebranding to XpresSpa Group aligned our corporate strategy to build a pure-play health and wellness services company, which we commenced following our acquisition of XpresSpa Holdings, LLC (“XpresSpa”) on December 23, 2016. In 2017, we recruited employees for positions in both corporate and field teams, accelerated unit growth, reinvested in certain locations and extended leases, significantly streamlined operations, and engaged in new exclusive partnerships that offer XpresSpa customers innovative products and services.
 
We currently have two operating segments: wellness and intellectual property.
 
Our wellness operating segment consists of XpresSpa, which is a leading airport retailer of spa services. XpresSpa is a well-recognized airport spa brand with 56 locations, consisting of 51 domestic and 5 international locations, as of December 31, 2017. XpresSpa offers travelers premium spa services, including massage, nail and skin care, as well as spa and travel products. During 2017 and 2016, our wellness operating segment generated $48,373,000 and $811,000 of revenue, respectively (2016 results include eight days of operations from the acquisition on December 23, 2016 to December 31, 2016). In 2017, approximately 81% of XpresSpa’s total revenue was generated by services, primarily massage and nailcare, 18% was generated by retail products, primarily travel accessories, and 1% was related to cryotherapy and loungers.
 
Our intellectual property operating segment is engaged in the monetization of patents related to content and ad delivery, remote monitoring and computing technologies. During 2017 and 2016, this operating segment generated $450,000 and $11,175,000 of revenue, respectively.
 
In October 2017, we completed the sale of FLI Charge, Inc. (“FLI Charge”) and in March 2018, we completed the sale of Group Mobile Int’l LLC (“Group Mobile”). These two entities previously comprised our technology operating segment. The results of operations for FLI Charge and Group Mobile are presented in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss as consolidated net loss from discontinued operations. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities belonging to Group Mobile as of December 31, 2017, and FLI Charge and Group Mobile as of December 31, 2016, are presented in the consolidated balance sheets as assets held for disposal and liabilities held for disposal, respectively.


Our Strategy and Outlook
 
Wellness


XpresSpa is a leading airport retailer of spa services and related products. It is a well-recognized and popular airport spa brand with an approximately 50% market share in the United States and nearly three times the number of domestic locations as its closest competitor. It provides approximately one million services per year. As of December 31, 2017, XpresSpa operated 56 total locations in 23 airports in three countries: the United States, Netherlands and United Arab Emirates. XpresSpa also sells wellness and travel products through its internet site, www.xpresspa.com. Key services and products offered include:

· | massage services for the neck, back, feet and whole body;
--+----------------------------------------------------------


· | nail care, such as pedicures, manicures and polish changes;
--+------------------------------------------------------------

 
5



· | travel products, such as neck pillows, blankets and massage tools; and
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------


· | new offerings, such as cryotherapy services, NormaTec compression services, and Dermalogica personal care services and retail products.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
For over 15 years, increased security requirements have led travelers to spend more time at the airport. In addition, in anticipation of the long and often stressful security lines, travelers allow for more time to get through security and, as a result, often experience increased downtime prior to boarding. Consequently, travelers at large airport hubs have idle time in the terminal after passing through security.
 
XpresSpa was developed to address the stress and idle time spent at the airport, allowing travelers to spend this time productively, by relaxing and focusing on personal care and wellness. We believe that XpresSpa is well positioned to benefit from consumers’ growing interest in health and wellness and increasing demand for spa services and related wellness products.
 
Intellectual Property
 
Our intellectual property operating segment is engaged in the monetization of patents related to content and ad delivery, remote monitoring and computing technologies.


Recent Developments
 
Rebranding
 
On January 5, 2018, we changed our name to XpresSpa Group, Inc. from FORM Holdings Corp, which aligned our corporate strategy to build a pure-play health and wellness services company. Our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, which had previously been listed under the trading symbol “FH” on the Nasdaq Capital Market, has been listed under the trading symbol “XSPA” since January 8, 2018.
Dispositions
 
On October 20, 2017, we sold FLI Charge to a group of private investors and FLI Charge management, who now own and operate FLI Charge. On March 22, 2018, we sold Group Mobile to a third party. We will not be providing any continued management or financing support to FLI Charge or Group Mobile.
Sale of Patents
 
In January 2018, we sold certain patents to Crypto Currency Patent Holdings Company LLC, a unit of Marathon Patent Group, Inc. (“Marathon”), for approximately $1,250,000, comprised of $250,000 in cash and 250,000 shares of Marathon common stock valued at approximately $1,000,000 at the time of the transaction. Pursuant to the sale, we cannot directly or indirectly offer, sell, pledge or transfer, or otherwise dispose of, the Marathon common stock for a period of 180 days ending on July 11, 2018.
Capital Raise
 
On July 26, 2017, we entered into an underwriting agreement (the “Underwriting Agreement”) with Roth Capital Partners, LLC, acting as the representative of the several underwriters named therein (collectively, the “Underwriters”), relating to the issuance and sale (the “Offering”) of 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (“XSPA Common Stock”) including 900,000 shares subject to the Underwriters’ over-allotment option, which was exercised on August 2, 2017 and closed on August 4, 2017. The price to the public in the Offering was $1.10 per share and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the shares of XSPA Common Stock from us pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement at a purchase price of $1.023 per share. Our net proceeds from the Offering were approximately $6,584,000 after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses.
 
6


Competition
 
Wellness
 
XpresSpa operated 56 locations, which includes 51 domestic locations and 5 international locations as of December 31, 2017. Our domestic units operate within many of the largest and most heavily trafficked airports in the United States. The balance of the North American market is highly fragmented and is represented largely by small, privately-owned entities that operate one or two locations in a single airport. Only two other market participants operate 10 or more airport locations in the United States. The largest domestic competitor operates 14 locations in seven airports. Outside of North America, this same competitor operates 22 locations in eight international airports.
Intellectual Property
 
After a period of intense competition from public and private companies for the acquisition of intellectual property assets, prices have dropped substantially. Due to the many patent sales and divestments over the past few years, many companies continue to seek to monetize intellectual property by licensing their patents to companies in a number of technology sectors. This has occurred in an increasingly challenging and changing legal environment for monetizing patents.
Our Market
 
Airport retailers differ significantly from traditional retailers. Unlike traditional retailers, airport retailers benefit from a steady and largely predictable flow of traffic from a constantly changing customer base. Airport retailers also benefit from “dwell time,” the period after travelers have passed through airport security and before they board an aircraft. For over 15 years, increased security requirements have led travelers to spend more time at the airport. In addition, in anticipation of the long and often stressful security lines, travelers allow for more time to get through security and, as a result, often experience increased downtime prior to boarding.
 
XpresSpa was developed to address the stress and idle time spent at the airport, allowing travelers to spend this time productively, by relaxing and focusing on personal care and wellness. We believe that XpresSpa is well positioned to benefit from consumers’ growing interest in health and wellness and increasing demand for spa services and related wellness products. According to the Global Wellness Institute, global wellness was a $3.7 trillion industry in 2015, which was an increase of 10.6% from $3.3 trillion in 2013. In addition, according to the Global Wellness Institute, the global spa industry represented $98.6 billion in 2015 and the fitness, mind and body industry represented $542 billion in 2015.
 
In addition, a confluence of microeconomic events has created favorable conditions for the expansion of retail concepts at airports, in particular, retail concepts that attract higher spending from air travelers. The competition for airplane landings has forced airports to lower landing fees, which in turn has necessitated augmenting their retail offerings to offset budget shortfalls. Infrastructure projects at airports across the country, again intended to make an airport more desirable to airlines, require funding from bond issuances that in turn rely upon, in part, the expected minimum rent guarantees and expected income from concessionaires.
 
Equally as important to the industry growth is XpresSpa’s flexible retail format. XpresSpa opens multiple locations annually, which have ranged in size from 200 square feet to 2,600 square feet, with a typical size of approximately 1,200 square feet. XpresSpa is able to adapt its operating model to almost any size location available in space constrained airports. This increased flexibility compared to other retail concepts allows XpresSpa to operate multiple stores within an airport, from which it enjoys synergies due to shared labor between stores.
 
XpresSpa believes that its operating metrics represent an attractive return on invested capital and, as a result, is pursuing new locations at airports and terminals around the country. Historically, XpresSpa has won approximately four out of every five requests for proposal (“RFP”) in which it has participated.


Regulation
 
Our operations are subject to a range of laws and regulations adopted by national, regional and local authorities from the various jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to, among others, licensing (e.g., massage, nail, and cosmetology), public health and safety and fire codes. Failure to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals, including those related to licensing, public health and safety and fire codes, would adversely affect our operations. Although we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, significant problems obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining such licenses, permits or approvals could delay or prevent the opening, or adversely impact the viability, of our operations.
 
7


Airport authorities in the United States frequently require that our airport concessions meet minimum Airport Concession Disadvantaged Business Enterprise ("ACDBE") participation requirements. The Department of Transportation’s (“DOT”) ACDBE program is implemented by recipients of DOT Federal Financial Assistance, including airport agencies that receive federal funding. The ACDBE program is administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), state and local ACDBE certifying agencies and individual airports. The ACDBE program is designed to help ensure that small firms owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals can compete for airport contracting and concession opportunities in domestic passenger service airports. The ACDBE regulations require that airport recipients establish annual ACDBE participation goals, review the scope of anticipated large prime contracts throughout the year, and establish contract-specific ACDBE participation goals. We generally meet the contract specific goals through an agreement providing for co-ownership of the retail location with a disadvantaged business enterprise. Frequently, and within the guidelines issued by the FAA, we may lend money to ACDBEs in connection with concession agreements in order to help the ACDBE fund the capital investment required under a concession agreement. The rules and regulations governing the certification of ACDBE participation in airport concession agreements are complex, and ensuring ongoing compliance is costly and time consuming. Further, if we fail to comply with the minimum ACDBE participation requirements in our concession agreements, we may be held responsible for breach of contract, which could result in the termination of a concession agreement and monetary damages. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to our Business Operations – Failure to comply with minimum airport concession disadvantaged business enterprise participation goals and requirements could lead to lost business opportunities or the loss of existing business.”
 
We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and various federal and state laws governing matters such as minimum wages, overtime, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and other working conditions. We are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment, which may require us to design or modify our concession locations to make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons.
 
We are also subject to certain truth-in-advertising, general customs, consumer and data protection, product safety, workers’ health and safety and public health rules that govern retailers in general, as well as the merchandise sold within the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
 
Employees
 
As of March 15, 2018, we had 697 full-time and 148 part-time employees. XpresSpa had 53 full-time employees in San Francisco International Airport, who are represented by a labor union and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. XpresSpa had 34 full-time employees in Los Angeles International Airport, who are represented by a labor union and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.
Corporate Information
 
We were incorporated in Delaware as a corporation on January 9, 2006 and completed an initial public offering in June 2010. On January 5, 2018, we changed our name to XpresSpa Group, Inc. from FORM Holdings Corp. as part of a rebranding that aligned our corporate strategy to build a pure-play health and wellness services company. Our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, which was previously listed under the trading symbol “FH” on the Nasdaq Capital Market, has been listed under the trading symbol “XSPA” since January 8, 2018. Our principal executive offices are located at 780 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, New York 10017. Our telephone number is (212) 309-7549 and our website address is www.xpresspagroup.com. We also operate the website www.xpresspa.com. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website. We make our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and amendments to the foregoing reports, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. In addition, we post the following information on our website:

· | our corporate code of conduct and our insider trading compliance manual; and
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance committee.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
 
8


