Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business. 
 Cars.com Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to here as “Cars.com™,” the “Company,” “our,” “us” or “we.” Cars.com conducts all of its operations through its wholly owned subsidiaries Cars.com, LLC and DealerRater.com, LLC.
 Overview
 Cars.com is a leading two-sided digital automotive marketplace that creates meaningful connections between consumers (individuals researching cars or looking to purchase a car) and partners or customers (car dealerships and automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). While connecting advertising partners with in-market car shoppers and providing data-driven intelligence to increase inventory turn and gain market share, the Company empowers consumers with resources and information to assist them in making better informed buying decisions around The 4Ps of Automotive MarketingTM: Product, Price, Place and Person. The Company has evolved into one of the largest digital automotive platforms, connecting tens of thousands of local dealers across the country with millions of consumers. Through trusted expert content, on-the-lot mobile features and intelligence, millions of new and used vehicle listings, a comprehensive set of pricing and research tools, and the largest database of consumer reviews in the industry, we believe Cars.com is transforming the car shopping experience.
 We generate revenues primarily through the sale of online subscription advertising products targeting car dealerships through our own direct sales force, as well as through our affiliate sales channels. We host approximately 4.9 million new and used vehicle listings at any given time and serve over 20,000 franchise and independent car dealers throughout all 50 states. We also generate revenue through the sale of digital advertising products to national advertisers. 
 Cars.com was established in 1998 as a division of Classified Ventures, LLC, a joint venture formed by eight leading media companies, to provide nationally branded online services for classified advertising marketplaces. On October 1, 2014, TEGNA Inc. (“TEGNA”), our former parent company, purchased 73% of the equity interests in Classified Ventures, LLC it did not previously own for $1.8 billion in cash. In August 2016, we expanded our editorial presence through the acquisition of DMR Holdings, Inc. (“DealerRater”) which provided us with new solutions to help car dealerships and OEMs manage, measure and harness the power of social media. On May 31, 2017, we completed a spin-off from TEGNA and on June 1, 2017, our common stock began trading “regular way” on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). In February 2018, we completed the acquisition of privately held Dealer Inspire Inc. (“DI”) and Launch Digital Marketing (“LDM”). DI is an innovative technology leader that has been rapidly increasing its market share by providing progressive dealer websites, digital retailing and messaging platform products. LDM is a provider of digital automotive marketing services, including paid, organic, social and creative services. These proprietary solutions are complementary extensions of the Company’s online marketplace platform and current suite of dealer solutions. We now have broader capabilities and even more data-driven tools to create deeper connections between car dealerships and in-market car shoppers. Cars.com, DI and LDM thrive on a culture of innovation, and are in pursuit of a common mission to enable the dealer retail system 
 1

with sophisticated digital tools that transform the car shopping experience for consumers. The 2017 financial results reported in this report do not include the impacts from the acquisitions of DI and LDM.
 In 2005, we added a direct sales team to join our affiliate sales team, which was on board as a result of our media partners. To better serve our growing consumer audience and drive more traffic, we developed an editorial team made up of industry experts who launched robust, objective automotive information for car shoppers. By 2010, all major OEMs selling vehicles in the United States were advertising on Cars.com. 
 We were the first in our industry to launch a mobile application (“application” or “app”) in 2007 and we continue to outpace the industry in mobile today. The Cars.com app is rated #1 for both iOS and Android devices and our active app users are the highest in the competitive set. It is not uncommon that with media and technology businesses, user behavior and migration typically precedes advertiser rewards, and we are positioned well to win. Over half of all auto advertising is spent on traditional media where proof of impact is relatively scarce. Traditionally, dealers rely solely on lead-generation metrics where consumers provide their contact information. Today, consumers are using mobile devices to shop anonymously. Accordingly, we track traditional leads, which are connections from consumers to dealers in the form of phone calls, emails and text messages, traffic to dealers in OEM websites and, most recently, mobile walk-ins through our Lot Insights reporting tool, which is the first of its kind in the industry. Using geo-fencing technology, we are able to track Cars.com consumers on or near a dealer’s lot which delivers valuable insights and demonstrable value of the influence that we have on mobile shoppers to dealer advertisers. It will take time for us to educate the industry and transition forward to measuring consumer behavior in this manner.
 As consumer demand for transparency spreads across nearly all industries, we became one of the first sites shoppers could go to for dealer reviews. Since launching the reviews feature in 2011, we own the largest platform for automotive reviews in the industry. In August 2016, we deepened our editorial presence through the acquisition of DealerRater. The acquisition provides us with new solutions to help dealers and OEMs manage, measure and harness the power of social media. In January 2017, Cars.com and DealerRater launched DealerRater Connections, a feature that connects dealership salespeople to motivated, in-market shoppers before they ever walk onto the lot. In September 2017, we launched Salesperson Connect, a feature upgrade that integrates DealerRater Connections data with the Cars.com Vehicle Details Page (“VDP”), creating a more personalized car shopping experience for consumers.
 In 2012, we continued to expand our offerings and moved beyond our focus on car shopping by entering a new sector of the industry. We made a strategic investment in RepairPal, Inc. (“RepairPal”) and began developing new, innovative products for dealerships to promote and grow their service departments. Our first service features went live on the site in April 2014, with a dedicated Service & Repair tab to support dealership service departments and offer a platform for dealers to share information about their business, showcase their quality, be transparent with prices, and highlight customer reviews. In March 2016, we launched our Sell and Trade product, which captures the attention of individual consumers looking to dispose of their vehicles quickly and easily by promoting dealerships interested in buying used vehicles. The product also helps dealerships build their used vehicle inventories.
 Industry, Landscape and Competition
 The automotive industry is a massive market for the U.S. economy. The U.S Census Bureau estimates the industry to have been $1.2 trillion in 2017, with dealers accounting for at least 85% of all vehicles sold according to the Borrell Associates’ 2017 Automotive Outlook report. The automotive industry represents over 20% of the U.S. retail economy. In 2017, according to research conducted by the National Automobile Dealers Association (“NADA”), new vehicle sales were 17.1 million units. However, the core of the U.S. auto economy is the used vehicles market. In 2017, according to NADA and other industry research, used vehicle sales are projected to have exceeded 44 million units.
 According to the Borrell Associates’ 2017 Automotive Outlook report, the U.S. auto advertising industry is a $37 billion market with approximately 56% of that spending online. In 2017, Cars.com captured approximately 2% of spending in the industry, while we believe that our influence and impact was and is far greater. Auto advertising has been a reliably growing market, and over the next five years, U.S. auto advertising is expected to grow to $41 billion, a 2% compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”), while the online category of spend is expected to grow by a 5% CAGR. Online category spend is expected to reach 66% of the overall market spend over the same period. 
 In 2017, there were approximately 43,000 automotive dealers in the United States, comprised of 16,000 franchised dealers and 27,000 independents. Ten years ago, the average consumer would visit five different dealerships when purchasing a vehicle, while today, the average consumer visits less than two dealerships. Further, while dealers and OEMs continue to increase their spend to drive consumers to their first party websites, consumer preference is to visit third-party website marketplaces, such as ours. We stand to benefit in this growing market, as consumers are making more decisions based on digital research.
 We have significant competition from companies that provide car listings, information, lead generation and vehicle-buying services designed to reach consumers and enable dealers to reach these consumers, such as Internet search engines and online automotive sites, sites operated by automobile manufacturers and offline automotive classified listings, such as trade periodicals and local newspapers. We compete with many of these companies and other companies for a share of car dealers’ overall marketing budget. 
 2

Our Products and Services
 We offer a suite of digital solutions targeting buyers and sellers of automobiles and automobile services. Our flagship product is our digital automotive marketplace that connects buyers and sellers on Cars.com™. Our automotive marketplace products provide a compelling destination for consumers through extensive inventory, intelligent pricing tools and credible user and expert automotive and dealer reviews, which further empower consumer decision-making. This unique content garners a highly-engaged audience that is open to influence from automotive advertisers. We also operate Auto.com™, DealerRater.com®, NewCars.com® and PickupTrucks.com™, which are specialized websites directed toward different consumer segments. With the acquisition of DI and LDM in February 2018, we now also have DealerInspire.com® and LaunchDigitalMarketing.com® as part of our portfolio. 
 We primarily generate revenues through the sale of online subscription advertising products to car dealerships by our own direct sales force (retail revenue), as well as through our affiliate sales channels (wholesale revenue). Additionally, we generate revenue through the sale of display advertising to national advertisers. See Note 14 to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional information on our one operating and reportable segment and the two categories through which we generate revenue.
 Consumer Value Propositions 
 Car buyers and car owners interface with us primarily through the Cars.com sites and mobile applications, where we strive to provide a best-in-class car search and shopping experience. Our real-time behavioral data, and insights from nearly 20 years of consumer data enable us to deliver an experience that is defined by relevance for the user. We are continually optimizing our platform to deliver intelligent search functionality and guided navigation that helps users find the right car faster. We also feature contextual, dynamic filters that help consumers better search inventory based on their needs. Powered by a custom algorithm, we offer “Best Match” sorting that weights multiple factors to arrive at search recommendations most relevant for each specific user.
 At our core, we provide car shoppers with access to information critical to making a buying decision based on the 4P’s of Automotive Marketing™: Product, Price, Place and Person. We are creating market-leading innovations to enhance the consumer experience and empower consumers with all the information they require — what to buy (product), what to pay (price), where to buy (place) and who to buy from (person).
Product
 Considering 70% of our shoppers are undecided on what to buy, we give them access to inventory. Consumers can browse through nearly 5 million new and used vehicle listings and learn more about each vehicle listed through the VDP. Shoppers can gather more in-depth information on our research pages. Our editorial team tests, reviews and photographs more than 100 different car makes and models every year and creates independent and unbiased coverage of the automotive landscape by focusing on consumer advice, trends and analysis. We provide expert advice on a wide array of car buying topics, such as incentive information, financing options and fuel economy, thereby allowing consumers to choose their future vehicles based on the automobile characteristics that are most important to them. 
Price
 Approximately 61% of car shoppers cite pricing as the most useful content from third-party websites. Considering a vehicle is the second largest purchase most consumers will make in their lifetime, consumers want to know whether they are getting a fair deal. Our Price Comparison Graphs provide context around the price of a new or used vehicle and educate shoppers on how factors such as trim, mileage and certification impact the price of a vehicle in their market. Our price badges take this one step further by featuring badge icons on the inventory pages to help provide more context behind why a vehicle is priced the way it is. Badging leverages machine learning to assess the closest comparable vehicle and considers vehicle features either in high-demand for the region or those that impact the price beyond year, make, model and trim.
Place
 Almost all of our shoppers (approximately 94%) have not yet decided on a dealer. We create meaningful connections between buyers and sellers. We offer millions of dealer reviews for consumers to select the best dealership to do business with based on their preferred experience. 
Person
 The two most crucial people in the automotive purchase decision are the shopper and the salesperson. People buy from people. Even as consumers have access to more digital research tools, the final decision about buying and servicing a car still comes down to a shopper’s interaction with a person. As the purchase decision becomes more complicated, this personal interaction is more essential than ever. Each year, car manufacturers launch more than a thousand make, model and trim combinations. These factors help explain why car buyers would prefer to select their salesperson before walking into the dealership. These person-to-person interactions are so critical to the purchase decision that our VDPs were recently updated to include Salesperson Connect, a feature that showcases salespeople profiles which are populated from the DealerRater network. Through Salesperson Connect, we have now made it possible for shoppers to select and connect with salespeople directly through our marketplace before they walk onto a car dealership sales lot. As a result, shoppers enjoy a more personalized experience with the dealership and dealers are better connected with in-market shoppers who are motivated to buy.
 3

Advertiser Services 
 Our network of approximately 20,000 dealerships produce listings of approximately 4.9 million vehicles across the Cars.com sites and mobile applications. Our brand and products offer dealerships access to more than 33 million monthly visits from consumers who are looking to buy, sell or service a vehicle. Our integrated consumer product offerings on the Cars.com sites and mobile applications target not only car buyers, but also car sellers and car owners. Through these product offerings, dealers can advertise both their inventory of new and used vehicles, as well as their service departments, while gaining access to an audience of motivated consumers looking for a convenient way to sell a car. 
 Dealerships.
 We offer a monthly online subscription enabling dealers to showcase their new and used vehicle inventory to in-market shoppers. Vehicles for sale are highlighted with multiple photos, videos and vehicle specifications and consumers are but a few clicks away from contacting a dealer and moving further into the car buying process. To enhance their vehicle listings, dealers can purchase premium advertising that can be uniquely tailored to an individual dealer’s current needs. For example, Event Positions promote dealership events to all car shoppers in each market during a specific time frame. Our recently developed Lot Insights tool uses innovative geo-fencing to measure the influence that we have in connecting local in-market car shoppers to local dealers by tracking our mobile users on or near a dealer’s lot. 
 Through our August 2016 acquisition of DealerRater, we expanded our dealer offerings to include DealerRater Connections and Salesperson Connect, which help connect in-market shoppers directly to dealership salespeople before visiting the dealer lot. This product creates a more personalized car shopping experience for consumers and provides shoppers with access to information critical to making a buying decision across the 4P's: Product, Price, Place and Person. Currently, Cars.com is the only third-party automotive site with the differentiated fourth “P” around human connections. 
 The February 2018 acquisitions of DI and LDM will expand our dealer offerings to include the following sophisticated solutions: 
  
• | Conversations™: a powerful messaging platform with Artificial Intelligence that creates a centralized hub for dealers to communicate with customers, improve quality and length of response time and decrease operating costs.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Online Shopper: an end-to-end digital retailing solution, empowering shoppers to compare a wide range of financial considerations as they complete their purchase. Integrated with Conversations™, dealers can guide shoppers through the transaction, instantly collaborate on terms and video chat for live, personalized vehicle tours.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Fuel: an inventory advertising program that dynamically creates customized ads and keyword lists based on real-time inventory data and logic. This program includes predictive shopper intent, maximizing dollars on what shoppers are most likely to buy.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Website platforms that are custom-designed and flexible, supporting highly-personalized digital campaigns and built with intelligent technology that is easy to customize and self-manage and supported with preeminent customer service.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Customized digital marketing and customer acquisition solutions.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------

Manufacturers
 Given that the audience accessing the Cars.com websites and mobile applications are currently in the market for a new or used vehicle, OEMs are offered valuable access to a targeted audience of in-market car shoppers when they purchase display advertising. Our wide consumer reach allows it to successfully compete for and realize a market-leading share of the digital marketing spend of these OEMs. In addition to display advertising, we provide OEMs with consumer insights, data driven solutions and certified pre-owned marketing programs, which we believe are critical components of OEM digital marketing strategies. 
Our Strategies
 Our strategy is to be the clear market leader in the third-party automotive category by helping both consumers and advertisers win.
 4

For consumers, we will continue to focus on providing depth in each area of the 4P’s of Automotive Marketing™ while bringing the human touch back to an industry that has become overly cold and transactional. In doing so, we will differentiate ourselves as a two-sided digital platform that ignites and fosters the emotional connection associated with one of life’s biggest purchases (a car). With our trusted database of expert and user reviews, the strength of our data and research and the addition of new features such as Salesperson Connect™ and Price Badging, we are in a unique position to ensure consumers make the best automotive decisions for their needs. We will continue to optimize our intelligent search engine while building a curated and customized shopping experience for our users to ultimately transition from aggregator to navigator to matchmaker. In delivering personalization and further depth in each area of the 4P’s of Automotive Marketing™ while fueling an emotional connection between consumers and dealers, we will be the leader in consumer audience. We maintain an unwavering commitment to giving consumers unrestricted access to as much useful information as possible.
 With our large, high-quality audience coupled with an increased commitment to our range of products and services that create deeper connections between local dealers and manufacturers and consumers, we will remain the trusted platform of choice for digital automotive media spend. 
 Key elements of our strategy are as follows: 
 Leverage the conversion of our affiliate markets to direct sales teams. We will continue to convert our affiliate markets from wholesale revenue to retail revenue. In the seven months since we became a publicly-traded company, we have announced the conversion of approximately 60% of the wholesale revenue generated in the affiliate markets to our direct sales teams. The affiliates are the previous owners of Cars.com and have the exclusive right to sell and price Cars.com’s products and services in certain local territories, paying Cars.com a wholesale rate for each Cars.com product sold. In these markets, the affiliates maintain the relationship with the dealer customers. After these markets convert to the direct sales channels, we believe our revenue and profitability will increase.
 Leverage competitive strengths to provide targeted, integrated solutions to advertisers. Dealers and advertisers are seeking to reach their audience in an increasingly competitive market landscape and are trying to influence attitudes and behavior at each step of the car purchasing process. These dealers and advertisers operate on a hyper-local level that we believe has not been a priority for other technology companies, and we believe that this environment presents an attractive opportunity to use our key capabilities to provide critical solutions to the most pressing challenges these dealers and advertisers face. We intend to leverage our many competitive advantages, including our innovative digital advertising products and brand recognition as a trusted, unbiased third-party research platform, to create tailored media and marketing plans that efficiently target in-market consumers, drive dealership car buyer traffic and reinforce advertisers’ message and digital presence. We are a highly attractive advertising and marketing resource due to our offering of thoughtfully-crafted digital strategies that meet the unique needs of automobile industry marketers and advertisers. These unique product offerings allow seller customers and advertising partners of varying size and geographic reach to optimize the benefits of their marketing spend, which enables us to access a large universe of potential automotive advertising and marketing partners. Our localized advertising capabilities, longstanding customer relationships, highly talented on-the-ground team of approximately 450 digital marketing consultants and comprehensive promotional capabilities are all competitive advantages that we expect to use to sell integrated advertising and marketing solutions that meet the changing needs of our seller customers. We believe that creating new digital solutions for advertisers across the automobile industry on both a local and national basis will continue to put us in an excellent position to take advantage of the many opportunities resulting from the rapid pace of technological change in the industry. 
 
Advertising effectiveness and delivering value to dealers. We believe that the digital automotive marketplace will continue to evolve as consumer shopping and buying behaviors change. Currently, many dealer advertisers measure our value through traditional leads, which are connections from consumers to dealers that come in the form of phone calls, emails and text messages. We believe, and our research supports, that other interactions, particularly by consumers on mobile devices, also deliver willing buyers to dealer lots and influence purchases. These mobile interactions, such as vehicle and dealer research and discovery, deliver substantial additional value to dealers and advertisers but are not captured in lead measurement. Our innovation in the development and launch of Lot Insights and geo-fencing technology has demonstrated that consumers interact with dealers and make vehicle purchases based on their use of our product and service suite. We believe that over time, dealers and advertisers will recognize the changes in consumer behavior and will also evolve in the way that they measure the value that we deliver. As the measurement of the effectiveness of automotive digital marketing spend evolves, and as we continue to introduce new products that can incrementally influence buyers of vehicles to proceed directly to dealers’ lots without ever generating a lead, we believe that dealer-advertisers will continue to increase their digital marketing spend.
 Increase mobile solutions to further drive car buyer traffic. We believe that on-the-go mobile device car buying research and comparison applications have been playing and will continue to play an increasingly important role in the digital automotive marketplace industry. We have seized the opportunities presented by this trend. Approximately 59% of our shoppers visited the Cars.com sites from mobile devices in 2017. Our user-friendly mobile applications provide in-market car shoppers with real-time, credible research and price comparison tools while they are on the lot and actively engaged in the car buying process. Our ability to reach this highly targeted audience benefits our seller customers and advertising partners by providing targeted, localized access to 
 5

highly-motivated potential customers. Currently, we provide our mobile applications to dealers as part of our core digital advertising package. We do not currently charge for these applications separately but rather provide them as a way to enhance our core advertising package. 
 Advertiser growth through market penetration and premium service offerings. Despite a trend toward consolidation among car dealers, we believe we have opportunities to expand the number of dealers we partner with and to grow their advertising spend with additional products that strengthen connections between consumers and dealers and further capture OEMs’ advertising spend as they shift advertising dollars online. We aim to increase and enhance connections between buyers and sellers by continuing to improve the user experience and providing consumers with additional information about specific dealers through DealerRater. Further, we believe that dealer consolidation will result in major dealer chains having more resources to focus on measuring marketing effectiveness. We intend to take advantage of this trend by continuing to introduce new products, such as Lot Insights, that improve dealers’ ability to measure the impact of their advertising spend on the Cars.com sites. By increasing connections that improve the return on advertising spend and demonstrating this value to advertisers, we believe we can increase the number of dealers in our network and capture additional revenue from our existing dealers through product enhancements and premium service offerings. 
 Supplement organic growth with selective inorganic growth. We believe we are well-positioned to pursue value-enhancing investments and acquisitions in the increasingly competitive digital automotive marketplace industry. We are both opportunistic and disciplined in our acquisition strategy. Our inorganic focus includes areas such as expanding dealer solutions to offer through our sales network, consumer audience acquisition, and extending our mobile leadership. 
 Our Strengths 
 We believe we enjoy the benefits of several unique talents and assets, many of which have helped us to develop into an established industry leader. The following strengths support our business strategies: 
 Leading, branded digital automotive marketplace. Our brand is synonymous with car shopping and has a reputation for quality and reliability for car buyers and sellers based on our credible, unbiased editorial content and user-generated reviews. Approximately 85% of the traffic to Cars.com comes to us directly through branded channels – direct to site, search engine optimization (“SEO”), our mobile site and our app. The remaining traffic comes to us from paid sources. During 2017, we averaged more than 33 million consumer visits each month, and according to data provided by Millward Brown in December 2017, we had the #1 brand awareness position in the industry among online-focused brands in our category. 
 Expansive footprint in consumer markets.  Cars.com is a leading marketplace connecting consumers and advertising partners across the United States. At any given time, we host approximately 4.9 million vehicle listings and serve over 20,000 car dealers in all 50 states. Cars.com’s vast footprint increases the available reach for advertisers and makes our services attractive to automotive manufacturers and dealership networks seeking digital platforms for impactful campaigns. During 2017, we captured 400 million consumer visits to our sites.
 Mobile leadership.  Consumers are increasingly using their mobile devices for all of their shopping needs. For Cars.com, our mobile leadership has resulted in almost 60% of our traffic coming through our mobile site, tablet and app. The Cars.com app is rated #1 for both iOS and Android devices and our active app users are the highest in the competitive set. From a dealer perspective, we are able to capture consumers engaging with our marketplace while physically on or near a dealer site with our On the Lot patented technology. 
 Product and technology innovation. In 2017, we adopted a lean agile development cycle, enabling more than 100 consumer site experiences in a month compared with less than that in a full year in prior years. Our commitment to innovative digital products and marketing solutions is illustrated through a multitude of enhancements during 2017. For example, we improved our search engine to make it simpler and smoother for users to find the right car; we completed our best match sorting that delivers search recommendations customized for each specific user; we launched Salesperson Connect™, a differentiated feature that allows shoppers to connect directly with their salesperson of choice for a more personalized shopping and buying experience; and we expanded our price transparency tools including price badging that uses vehicle-specific market demand to indicate whether a car is a “Great Deal,” “Good Deal,” “Fair Price” or “Well-Equipped.”
 Knowledgeable, dedicated and in-market sales force. A significant part of our value is our partnership with the automotive industry. We have one of the best locally-entrenched sales forces who provide our customers with real time insights and business intelligence to increase their sales and efficiency. Working side by side with our advertiser customers, our approximate 450 person sales network includes approximately 400 sales specialists in market.
 6

Trusted, unbiased content.  Through a combination of expert editorial content and user generated review content, we believe we offer a distinct competitive advantage. Our in-house editorial research staff provides approximately 100 expert reviews on new model releases each year. These award-winning journalists are steeped in automotive expertise and are regularly featured in leading industry publications, trade journals and daily newspapers, as well as on television. We believe that through videos, vehicle demonstrations and written insights, the staff’s unique editorial voice speaks to the needs of mainstream car shoppers, attracting additional traffic to and enhanced engagement with the Cars.com sites. In addition, we have more than 6 million consumer reviews – capturing consumer sentiment which informs other consumers.
 Attractive financial model at scale. We believe we have historically delivered strong results as measured by revenue, profitability, cash flow and capital efficiency. Our subscription model results in revenue that is recurring among a diversified customer base. In 2017, our operating cash flow totaled $186 million. We have industry leading profitability when comparing us to publicly traded competitors in the category.
 Proven management team. Our management team is led by Alex Vetter, President and Chief Executive Officer. As one of the founding members of Cars.com, Vetter has helped shape the Company from its initial concept into a leading digital automotive marketplace. And the broad experiences of our team foster an environment of collaboration and innovation.
 Competition
 Our business is highly competitive. We face significant competition for a share of car dealers’ overall marketing budget from companies that provide listings, information, lead generation and car-buying services designed to reach consumers and enable dealers to reach consumers. Our competitors offer various products and services that compete with Cars.com. Some of these products include: 

• | Internet search engines and online automotive sites such as Amazon, Facebook, Craig’s list, Google, AutoTrader.com, eBay Motors, Edmunds.com, KBB.com, Autobytel.com, CarGurus.com, Carfax.com, NADAGuides.com and TrueCar.com.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Sites operated by automobile manufacturers.
--+--------------------------------------------


• | Providers of offline, membership-based car-buying services.
--+------------------------------------------------------------


• | Offline automotive classified listings, such as trade periodicals and local newspapers.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 To the extent that car dealers view alternative marketing and media strategies to be superior, we may not be able to maintain or grow the number of dealers in our network and such dealers may sell fewer cars to users of our platform. In addition, new competitors may enter the online automotive retail industry with competing products and services. 
 Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. 
Regulatory Matters
 Various aspects of our business are or may be subject to U.S. federal and state regulation. In particular, the advertising and sale of new or used vehicles is highly regulated by the states in which we do business. Although we do not sell motor vehicles, the dealers from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues do sell them. Moreover, state regulatory authorities or other third parties could take and, on some occasions, have taken the position that some of the regulations applicable to dealers or to the manner in which motor vehicles are advertised and sold generally are directly applicable to our business model. 
 To operate in this highly regulated environment, we have developed our products and services with a view toward appropriately managing the risk that our regulatory compliance or the regulatory compliance of our dealer customers could be challenged. If, and to the extent that, our products and services fail to satisfy relevant regulatory requirements, we could be subject to significant civil and criminal penalties, including fines, or the award of significant damages in class action or other civil litigation, as well as orders interfering with our ability to continue providing our products and services in certain states. 
 Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 1,100 full-time employees. We also engage consultants to support our operations. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
 Available Information
We file periodic reports (Forms 10-Q and 10-K) and current reports (Form 8-K) and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our filings with the SEC are available to the public on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Our 
 7

filings are also available to the public on, or accessible through, our website for free via the “Investor Relations” section at http://investor.cars.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. The information we file with the SEC or contained on or accessible through our corporate website or any other website that we may maintain is not incorporated by reference herein and is not part of this report. We may from time to time provide important disclosures to investors by posting them in the investor relations section of our website, as allowed by SEC rules. Materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
