Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview 
 
Enservco Corporation (“Enservco”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”, “we” or “us”) provides various services to the domestic onshore oil and natural gas industry. These services include frac water heating, hot oiling and acidizing (well enhancement services); water transfer and water treatment (water transfer services); water hauling, fluid disposal, frac tank rental (water hauling services); and, excavating, grading, and dirt hauling services (construction services). The Company owns and operates a fleet of more than 630 specialized trucks, trailers, frac tanks and other well-site related equipment and serves customers in several major domestic oil and gas fields including the DJ Basin/Niobrara area in Colorado, the Bakken area in North Dakota, the Marcellus and Utica Shale area in Pennsylvania and Ohio, the Jonah Field, Green River and Powder River Basins in Wyoming, the Eagle Ford Shale and Austin Chalk in Texas, the Mississippi Lime and Hugoton field area in Kansas and the Stack and Scoop plays in the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma.
 
Enservco was originally incorporated as Aspen Exploration Corporation under Delaware law on February 28, 1980 for the primary purpose of acquiring, exploring and developing oil and natural gas and other mineral properties. During the first half of 2009, Aspen disposed of its oil and natural gas producing assets and as a result was no longer engaged in active business operations. On June 24, 2010, Aspen entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with Dillco Fluid Service, Inc. (“Dillco”) which set forth the terms by which Dillco became a wholly owned subsidiary of Aspen on July 27, 2010. On December 30, 2010, Aspen changed its name to “Enservco Corporation.” 
 
The Company’s executive (or corporate) offices are located at 501 South Cherry St., Ste. 1000, Denver, CO 80246. Our telephone number is (303) 333-3678, and our facsimile number is (720) 974-3417. Our website is www.enservco.com. 
Corporate Structure

The below table provides an overview of the Company’s current subsidiaries and their activities. 
 

Name | State of Formation | Ownership | Business 
----------------------------------------------+---------------------+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Heat Waves Hot Oil Service LLC (“Heat Waves”) | Colorado | 100% by Enservco | Oil and natural gas well services, including logistics and stimulation. 
Dillco Fluid Service, Inc. | Kansas | 100% by Enservco | Oil and natural gas field fluid logistic services primarily in the Hugoton field area in western Kansas and northwestern Oklahoma.
Heat Waves Water Management LLC (“HWWM”) | Colorado | 100% by Enservco | Water Transfer and Water Treatment Services 
HE Services, LLC (“HES”) | Nevada | 100% by Heat Waves | No active business operations. Owns construction equipment used by Heat Waves. 
Real GC, LLC (“Real GC”) | Colorado | 100% by Heat Waves | No active business operations. Owns real property in Garden City, Kansas that is used by Heat Waves. 

 
 5



In November 2015, HWWM was organized under Colorado law as a wholly owned subsidiary of Enservco for the purpose of launching a water transfer service division. Effective January 1, 2016, HWWM acquired various water transfer assets from WET Oil Services, LLC (‘WET”) including vehicles, high and low volume pumps, manifolds, pipe, and other support equipment. In addition, effective January 1, 2016, HWWM acquired water treatment equipment which utilizes technology in devices sold under the name of HydroFLOW and various water transfer assets including high and low volume pumps, lay flat hose, trailers, generators, pipe and other equipment from HII Technologies, Inc. and its affiliates (“HIIT”). The total purchase price for both acquisitions was approximately $4.3 million. HydroFLOW products offer water treatment services based on patented hydropath technology that can remove bacteria and scale from water using electrical induction to reduce or eliminate down-hole scaling and corrosion. HWWM provides water transfer services and water treatment services to the onshore oil and natural gas sector. 
  
Overview of Business Operations
 
Enservco primarily conducts its business operations through its principal operating subsidiaries (Heat Waves, HWWM, and Dillco), which provide oil field services to the domestic onshore oil and natural gas industry. These services include frac water heating, hot oiling, pressure testing, acidizing, water transfer, bacteria and scale treatment, freshwater and saltwater hauling, fluid disposal, frac tank rental, well site construction and other general oil field services. As described in the table above, certain assets utilized by Heat Waves, HWWM, and Dillco in their business operations are owned by other subsidiary entities. The Company currently operates in the following geographic regions: 

● | Rocky Mountain Region, including eastern Colorado and southern Wyoming (D-J Basin and Niobrara formations), central Wyoming (Powder River and Green River Basins), northwestern New Mexico (San Juan Basin), and western North Dakota and eastern Montana (Bakken area). The Rocky Mountain Region operations are deployed from Heat Waves’ operations centers in Killdeer, ND; Rock Springs, WY; and, Platteville, CO.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Eastern USA Region, including the southern region of the Marcellus Shale formation (southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia) and the Utica Shale formation in eastern Ohio. The Eastern USA Region operations are deployed from Heat Waves’ operations center in Carmichaels, PA. 
● | Central USA Region, including the Mississippi Lime and Hugoton area in southwestern Kansas, Texas panhandle, and northwestern Oklahoma, and the Eagle Ford Shale and Austin Chalk in south Texas. The Central USA Region operations are deployed from operations centers in Garden City and Hugoton, KS; Okarche, OK; and in Bryan and Jourdanton, TX. 

 

 6



Historically, the Company focused its growth strategy on strategic acquisitions of operating companies and expansion of services through capital investment consisting of the acquisition and fabrication of property and equipment. That strategy also included expanding into new geographical territories as well as expanding the services it provides. These strategies are exemplified by these activities: 
 

(1) | From 2014 through 2016, the Company spent approximately $33.7 million for the acquisition and fabrication of additional frac water heating, hot oiling, and acidizing equipment; and
----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(2) | To expand its footprint, in early 2010 Heat Waves began providing services in the Marcellus Shale natural gas field in southwestern Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and in September 2011 Heat Waves extended its services into the D-J Basin / Niobrara formation and the Bakken formation through opening new operation centers in southern Wyoming and western North Dakota, respectively. In late 2012 the Company expanded its operations, through its Pennsylvania operation center, into the Utica Shale formation in eastern Ohio. Also, in early 2015 the Company expanded its operations into the Eagle Ford formation through opening a new operations center in southern Texas. During 2017, the Company expanded operations in southern Texas by opening a new operations center In Bryan, Texas.
----+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(3) | To expand its services, in January 2016, Enservco acquired various water transfer assets for approximately $4.3 million in order to provide water transfer services and bacteria and scaling treatment solutions to its customers in all of its operating areas.
----+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The years 2014 through early 2017 were challenging for us. The decline in drilling, completion and service activities throughout the industry that started in 2014 and continued during most of 2016 due to low oil and natural gas prices resulted in significantly reduced demand for our services in 2015 and 2016. Positive developments occurred in 2017 as industry conditions improved, with increased and stable commodity prices and an increase in completion and production activities, which we believe had an impact on us beginning with our fourth quarter 2017 results. To fund operations through the downturn and into the recent recovery, we have relied on cash provided by various lenders, including senior lenders pursuant to our credit facilities. Our borrowing balance historically peaks early in the first quarter of the year as the increase in our direct variable costs related to our frac water heating services are incurred and paid. During the latter portion of the first quarter and throughout the second quarter we convert the related receivables into cash which we use to reduce our outstanding borrowings. As of March 15, 2018, we had approximately $25.7 million outstanding and $4.1 million available under our revolving credit facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further information.
 
As the domestic onshore oil and natural gas industry continues the current recovery, the Company expects to continue to pursue its growth strategies by increasing utilization of  its existing fleet of equipment, increasing the volume and scope of current services offered to our new and existing customers, exploring acquisitions relating to existing or complimentary service lines as capital and market conditions permit, expanding the geographic areas in which it operates, and making further investments in adding to its assets and equipment.
 
Operating Entities
 
As noted above, Enservco conducts its business operations and holds assets primarily through its subsidiary entities. The following describes the operations and assets of Enservco’s operating subsidiaries. 
 
Dillco. From its inception in 1974, Dillco has focused primarily on providing water hauling/disposal/storage services, well site construction services and frac tank rental to energy companies working in the Hugoton gas field in southwestern Kansas and northwestern Oklahoma. Water hauling and disposal services have been the primary sources of Dillco’s revenue. Dillco currently owns and operates a fleet of water hauling trucks and related assets, including specialized tank trucks, frac tanks, water disposal wells, construction and other related equipment. These assets transport, store and dispose of both fresh and salt water, as well as provide well site construction and maintenance services. 
 
Heat Waves. Heat Waves provides a range of well stimulation/maintenance services to a diverse group of independent and major oil and natural gas companies. The primary services provided are intended to: 
 

(1) | Assist in the fracturing of formations for newly drilled oil and natural gas wells; and
----+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(2) | Help maintain and enhance the production of existing wells throughout their productive life.
----+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
These services consist of frac water heating, hot oiling and acidizing. Heat Waves also provides some water hauling and well site construction services. Heat Waves’ operations are currently in the major oil and natural gas areas in Colorado, Kansas, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, and Wyoming.
 
HWWM. HWWM was organized in November 2015 as a new wholly owned subsidiary of Enservco for the purpose of launching a new water management division. In connection therewith, HWWM acquired approximately $4.3 million of water management assets from HIIT and WET in January 2016. 
 
 7



HWWM provides water transfer services, bacteria and scaling treatment solutions, and equipment rental to customers in the oil and natural gas industry. Water transfer entails using high and low volume pumps, lay flat hose, aluminum pipe and manifolds to move fresh and/or recycled water from a water source such as a well, pond, lake, river, stream, or water storage facility to frac tanks at drilling locations to be used in connection with well completion activities. In addition to providing traditional water transfer services, HWWM also utilized a patented hydropath technology (distributed under the name of HydroFLOW) to provide bacteria and scaling treatment services to the oil and gas industry. HydroFLOW utilizes electrical induction to reduce or eliminate down-hole scaling and corrosion and to reduce or eliminate bacteria in water. The hydropath technology is owned by HydroPath Holdings Limited. Pursuant to a Sales Agreement with the North American master distributor, HydroFLOW U.S.A., HWWM had the exclusive right to sell or rent HydroFLOW devices in connection with bacteria deactivation and scale treatment services for treating injection and disposal wells, fracking water and recycled water in the oil and gas industry to customers in the United States (except in Texas where the right regarding injection and disposal wells is exclusive to only 20 companies but non-exclusive for the remaining companies in Texas). HydroFLOW has a potentially lower-cost and environmentally friendly alternative to conventional chemical treatment of frac and recycled water which could significantly reduce the use, and therefore cost, of chemicals now used by oil and gas companies; however, in 2017 demand for the technology did not support our previous purchase commitments to HydroFLOW. Therefore, as of January 1, 2018, HWWM terminated its agreement with HydroFLOW.
 
Areas of Operations
 
The following map shows the primary areas in which the Company currently operates.
 






 8



Business Segments
 
Enservco, through its operating subsidiaries, provides a range of services to owners and operators of oil and natural gas wells in the following business segments. 
 
Well Enhancement Services

The Company’s well enhancement services consist of frac water heating, acidizing, hot oiling services, and pressure testing. These services are provided primarily by Heat Waves which, as of December 31, 2017 utilized a fleet of approximately 240 custom designed trucks and other related equipment. Heat Waves’ operations are currently in southwestern Kansas, northwestern Oklahoma, Texas panhandle, southern Wyoming (Niobrara), Colorado (D-J Basin), southwestern Pennsylvania/northwestern West Virginia (Marcellus Shale), eastern Ohio (Utica Shale), western North Dakota and eastern Montana (Bakken formation), and southern Texas (Eagle Ford Shale and Austin Chalk). Well enhancement services accounted for approximately 85% and 73% of the Company’s total revenues for fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
Frac Water Heating – Frac Water Heating is the process of heating water used in connection with the fracturing process of completing a well. Fracturing services are intended to enhance the production from crude oil and natural gas wells through the creation of conductive flowpaths to enable the hydrocarbons to reach the wellbore where the natural flow has been restricted by underground formations. The fracturing process consists of pumping a fluid slurry, which largely consists of fresh water and a proppant into a well at sufficient pressure to fracture (i.e. create conductive flowpaths) the formation. To ensure these solutions are properly mixed and can flow freely, during certain parts of the year the water frequently needs to be heated to a sufficient temperature as determined by the well owner/operator. As of December 31, 2017, Heat Waves owned and operated a fleet of 52 frac heaters (or the equivalent of 80 burner boxes) designed to heat large amounts of water. 
 
Acidizing - Acidizing entails pumping large volumes of specially formulated acids and/or chemicals into a well to dissolve materials blocking the flow of the crude oil or natural gas. The acid is pumped into the well under pressure. Acidizing is most often used to increase permeability throughout the formation, clean up formation damage near the wellbore caused by drilling, and to remove buildup of materials restricting the flow of crude oil and gas through perforations in the well casing. For most customers, Heat Waves supplies the acid solution and also pumps that solution into a given well. As of December 31, 2017, Heat Waves owned and operated a fleet of 7 acidizing units which consist of a specially designed acid pump truck and an acid transport trailer.
 
Hot Oil Services – Hot oil services involve the circulation of a heated fluid, typically oil, to dissolve, melt, or dislodge paraffin or other hydrocarbon deposits from the tubing of a producing well. Paraffin deposits build up over time from normal production operations, although the rate at which this paraffin builds up depends on the chemical character of the crude oil or natural gas being produced. These services are performed by circulating and heating oil from a well through a hot oil truck and then pumping it down the casing and back up the tubing to remove the deposits.
 
Hot oil servicing also includes the heating of oil storage tanks. The heating of storage tanks is done (i) to eliminate frozen water and other soluble waste in the tank for which the operator’s revenue is reduced at the refinery; and (ii) because heated oil flows more efficiently from the tanks to transports taking oil to the refineries in colder weather.
 
As of December 31, 2017, Heat Waves owned and operated a fleet of 57 hot oil trucks. Based on customer needs and seasonal conditions, these vehicles are deployed among the service regions as necessary in seeking to maximize their productive time. 
 
 9



Pressure Testing – Pressure testing consists of pumping fluids into new or existing wells or other components of the well system such as flow lines to detect leaks. Hot oil trucks and pressure trucks are used to perform this service.
 
Water Transfer Services
 
Water transfer services consists primarily of water transfer services. These services commenced in first quarter of 2016 with revenue being generated in the fourth quarter of 2016 after acquisition of water transfer assets from WET and HIIT in January 2016. Water transfer services accounted for approximately 5% and 1% of the Company’s total revenues for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
 Water Transfer Services – Water transfer entails using high and low volume pumps, lay flat hose, aluminum pipe and manifolds to move fresh and/or recycled water from a water source such as a pond, lake, river, stream, or storage facility to frac tanks at drilling locations to be used in connection with fracking activities. Water transfer differs from water hauling in that water transfer is typically used in connection with well completion activities and involves moving water via pumps, hoses and pipes whereas water hauling involves moving water via bobtail trucks or water transports for either service or completion work.
 
Water Hauling Services
 
Water hauling services include water hauling, salt water disposal, and frac tank rental services. These services are primarily provided by Dillco to customers in the Hugoton gas field in western Kansas and northwestern Oklahoma. Water hauling services accounted for approximately 9% and 16% of the Company’s total revenues for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
Water Hauling – As of December 31, 2017, the Company owned or leased, and operated approximately 67 water hauling trucks and trailers equipped with pumps to move water from/to wells, tanks and other storage facilities. A majority of the Company’s trucks consist of transports with a hauling capacity of up to 130 barrels (each barrel being equal to 42 U.S. gallons). The trucks are used to:


(1) | Transport water to fill frac tanks on well locations,
----+------------------------------------------------------


(2) | Transport contaminated water produced as a by-product of producing wells to disposal wells, including disposal wells that we own and operate, and
----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(3) | Transport drilling and completion fluids to and from well locations; following completion of fracturing operations, the trucks are used to transport the flow-back produced as a result of the fracturing process from the well site to disposal wells.
----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Most wells produce residual salt or fresh water in conjunction with the extraction of the oil or natural gas. The Company’s trucks pick up water at the well site and transport it to a disposal well for injection or to other environmentally sound surface recycling facilities. This is regular maintenance work that is performed on a periodic basis depending on the volume of water a well produces. 
 
Typically, the Company and a customer enter into a contract for water hauling services after that customer has completed a competitive bidding process. In these instances, we are our customers' "first call" for services, and work is performed for the customer based on agreed-upon rates and actual work performed. In other certain instances, customers with requirements for minor or incidental water hauling services usually purchase the services on a “call out” basis and charged according to a published schedule of rates. The Company competes for services on both a call out and contractual basis. 
 
 10



Disposal Well Services – The Company owns four disposal wells in Kansas and Oklahoma that allow for the injection of salt water and incidental non-hazardous oil and natural gas wastes. These wells are used exclusively by the Company for its customers.
 
Our trucks frequently transport fluids to be disposed of into these disposal wells. These wells are located in proximity to our customers’ producing wells. Most oil and natural gas wells produce varying amounts of water throughout their productive lives. In the states in which we operate, oil and natural gas wastes and water produced from oil and natural gas wells are required by law to be disposed of in authorized facilities, including permitted water disposal wells. All of the Company’s disposal wells are licensed by state authorities pursuant to guidelines and regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Safe Drinking Water Act and are completed in an environmentally sound manner in permeable formations below the fresh water table. 
 
Frac Tank Rental – The Company also generates a small amount of revenues from the rental of frac tanks in the Hugoton field area. As of December 31, 2017, the Company owned approximately 26 frac tanks, which can store up to 500 barrels of water and are used by oilfield operators to store fluids at the well site, including fresh water, salt water, and acid for frac jobs, flowback, temporary production and mud storage. Frac tanks are used during all phases of the life of a producing well. The Company generally rents frac tanks at daily rates and charges hourly rates for the transportation of the tanks to and from the well site.
 
Construction Services 
  
Construction services consist of excavation, grading and dirt hauling services. These services are primarily provided in Colorado to help increase utilization of the Company’s equipment and personnel during the slower non-heating months. This segment also utilizes sub-contractors as needed to supplement Company resources. Construction services accounted for approximately 1% and 11% of the Company’s total revenues for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
Ownership of Company Assets 
 
The Company owns various equipment and other assets to provide its services and products. Substantially all of the equipment and personal property assets owned by these entities are subject to security interests from loans and credit facilities utilized by the Company.
 
Historically, as supply and demand require, the Company has leased additional trucks and equipment from time to time. These leases are generally for periods of less than one year, and therefore are treated as operating leases for accounting purposes, and the rent expense associated with these leases is reported ratably over the term of the lease. 
 
Competitive Business Conditions
 
We face intense competition in our operations. Competition is influenced by factors such as price, capacity, the quality/safety-record/availability of equipment and work crews, and the reputation and experience of the service provider. The Company believes that an important competitive factor in establishing and maintaining long-term customer relationships is having an experienced, skilled, and well-trained work force that is responsive to our customers’ needs. Although we believe customers consider all of these factors, price is often the primary factor in determining which service provider is awarded work.
 
The demand for our services fluctuates primarily in relation to the domestic commodity price (or anticipated price) of oil and natural gas which, in turn, is largely driven by the domestic and worldwide supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, political events, as well as speculation within the financial markets. Demand and prices are often volatile and difficult to predict and depend on events that are not within our control. Generally, as supply of oil and natural gas decreases and demand increases, service and maintenance requirements increase as oil and natural gas producers drill new wells and attempt to maximize the productivity of their existing wells to take advantage of the higher priced environment. Conversely, as the supply of commodities increase and demand and crude oil and natural gas prices fall, oil and gas producers drill fewer wells and scale back or suspend service and maintenance work. 
 
 11



The Company’s competition primarily consists of small and large regional or local contractors. The Company attempts to differentiate itself from its competition in large part through its range and quality of services it has the capability to provide. The Company invests a significant amount of capital into purchasing, developing, and maintaining a fleet of trucks and other equipment that are critical to the services it provides. Further, the Company concentrates on providing services to a diverse group of major and independent oil and natural gas companies in a number of geographical areas. We believe we have been successful using this business model and believe it will enable us to grow our business in the event the oil and gas industry has continuing need for the type of service we provide. 
Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers
 
The Company serves numerous major and independent oil and natural gas companies that are active in our core areas of operations. 
 
As of December 31, 2017, a receivable from one customer comprised more than 10% of the Company’s accounts receivable balance; at approximately 11%. Revenues from this customer represented 8% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. 
 
While the Company believes its equipment could be redeployed in the current market environment if it lost any material customers, such loss could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business until the equipment is redeployed. We believe that the market for the Company’s services is sufficiently diversified that it is not dependent on any single customer or a few major customers.
 
Seasonality

A significant portion of the Company’s operations is impacted by seasonal factors, particularly with regard to its frac water heating and hot oiling services. In 2017, approximately 69% of revenue was earned during the first and fourth quarters. In regard to frac water heating, because customers rely on Heat Waves to heat large amounts of water for use in fracturing formations, demand for this service is much greater in the colder months. Similarly, hot oiling services are in higher demand during the colder months when they are needed for maintenance of existing wells and to heat oil storage tanks.
 
Acidizing and pressure testing are performed throughout the year with higher revenues typically during non-winter months.
 
Water hauling from producing wells is not as seasonal as our other services since wells produce water whenever they are pumping regardless of weather conditions. Hauling of water for the drilling or fracturing of wells is also not seasonal but dependent on when customers decide to drill or complete wells.
 
Although they are relatively new businesses to us, we believe water transfer services are not seasonal. However, our water transfer services depend upon the level of drilling, well completion, and production activities.
 
Raw Materials

             The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials, parts, and components that are made by other manufacturers and suppliers for our use. The Company is not dependent on any single source of supply for those parts, supplies or materials. However, there are a limited number of vendors for propane and certain acids and chemicals. The Company utilizes a limited number of suppliers and service providers available to fabricate and/or construct the trucks and equipment used in its hot oiling, frac water heating, and acid related services.
 
 12



Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts
 
The Company enters into agreements with local property owners where its disposal wells are located by which the Company generally agrees to pay those property owners a fixed amount per month plus a percentage of revenues derived from utilizing those wells. The terms of these agreements are separately negotiated with each property owner, and during its 2017 and 2016 fiscal years the total amount paid under these various agreements by the Company was immaterial to the Company and its business operations. 
 
As is the situation with all companies in the frac water heating service business, we rely on certain procedures and practices in performing our services. In 2016, we were issued our first patent relating to an aspect of the frac water heating process. We have other patent applications pending regarding other procedures used in our process of heating frac water. We are aware that one unrelated company has been awarded four patents related, in part, to a process for heating of frac water. For a further discussion of this, see Item 3 – Litigation, below. 
 
Pursuant to a Sales Agreement with HydroFLOW USA (“Sales Agreement”), HWWM had the exclusive right to sell or rent patented hydropath devices in connection with bacteria deactivation and scale treatment services for treating injection and disposal wells, frack water and recycled water in the oil and gas industry to customers in the United States. The hydropath technology is owned by HydroPath Holdings Limited. Pursuant to the Sales Agreement, the Company was required to pay royalties on certain rental transactions and was required to meet certain annual purchase commitments in order to maintain the exclusivity provision under the Sales Agreement. As of December 31, 2017, no royalties had been paid under the Sales agreement. As of January 1, 2018, HWWM terminated its agreement with HydroFLOW USA.
 
Government Regulation
 
The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a variety of government regulations ranging from environmental to OSHA to the Department of Transportation. Our operations are also subject to stringent federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety or the protection of the environment. These federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, wildlife protection, historic preservation, and health and safety are extensive and changing. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation is generally toward stricter standards, and we expect that this trend will continue as the governmental agencies issue and amend existing regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations as they currently exist or may be amended in the future may result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting activities. Strict adherence with these regulatory requirements increases our cost of doing business and consequently affects our profitability. The Company does not believe that it is in material violation of any regulations that would have a significant negative impact on the Company’s operations. 
 
Through the routine course of providing services, the Company handles and stores bulk quantities of hazardous materials. If leaks or spills of hazardous materials handled, transported or stored by us occur, the Company may be responsible under applicable environmental laws for costs of remediating any damage to the surface or sub-surface (including aquifers). 
 
 13



The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state statutes impose strict, joint and several liability on owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of “hazardous substances” found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes govern the disposal of “solid waste” and “hazardous waste” and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from its definition of “hazardous substance,” state laws affecting our operations may impose clean-up liability relating to petroleum and petroleum-related products. In addition, although RCRA classifies certain oil field wastes as “non-hazardous,” such exploration and production wastes could be reclassified as hazardous wastes thereby making such wastes subject to more stringent handling and disposal requirements. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on drilling and production sites long after operations on such sites have been completed. Other statutes relating to the storage and handling of pollutants include the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, which requires certain owners and operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil to prepare and implement spill response plans relating to the potential discharge of oil into surface waters. The OPA contains numerous requirements relating to prevention of, reporting of, and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. State laws mandate oil cleanup programs with respect to contaminated soil. A failure to comply with OPA’s requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill response action may subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions.
 
In the course of the Company’s operations, it does not typically generate materials that are considered “hazardous substances.” One exception, however, would be spills that occur prior to well treatment materials being circulated down hole. For example, if the Company spills acid on a roadway as a result of a vehicle accident in the course of providing well enhancement/stimulation services, or if a tank with acid leaks prior to down hole circulation, the spilled material may be considered a “hazardous substance.” In this respect, the Company may occasionally be considered to “generate” materials that are regulated as hazardous substances and, as a result, may incur CERCLA liability for cleanup costs. Also, claims may be filed for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants.
 
The Clean Water Act (the “CWA”), and comparable state statutes, impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water run-off from oil and natural gas facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release.
The Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”), and the Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells, such as the disposal wells owned and operated by the Company. The EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal well. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by oil and natural gas drilling, production, and related operations may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury.
 
 14



Regulations in the states in which the Company owns and operates water injection wells (Kansas and Oklahoma) require us to obtain a permit to operate each of our disposal wells. The applicable regulatory agency may suspend or modify one of our permits if the Company’s well operations are likely to result in pollution of freshwater, substantial violation of permit conditions or applicable rules, or if the well leaks into the environment. 
 
The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the SDWA to exclude hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” under certain circumstances. However, the repeal of this exclusion has been advocated by certain advocacy organizations and others in the public. The EPA at the request of Congress conducted a national study examining the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources and issued a final assessment report in December 2016, which concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances and identifies factors that influence these impacts.
 
We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with the environmental laws and regulations described herein. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. 
 
If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities, make it more difficult or costly for our customers to perform fracturing and increase their and our costs of compliance and doing business. It is also possible that drilling and injection operations utilizing our services could adversely affect the environment, which could result in a requirement to perform investigations or clean-ups or in the incurrence of other unexpected material costs or liabilities.
 
Significant studies and research have been devoted to climate change and global warming, and climate change has developed into a major political issue in the United States and globally. Certain research suggests that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climate change and pose a threat to the environment. Recent scientific research and political debate has focused in part on carbon dioxide and methane incidental to oil and natural gas exploration and production. Many state governments have enacted legislation directed at controlling greenhouse gas emissions, and future state and federal legislation and regulation could impose additional restrictions or requirements in connection with our operations and favor use of alternative energy sources, which could increase operating costs and decrease demand for oil products. As such, our business could be materially adversely affected by domestic and international legislation targeted at controlling climate change.
 
We are also subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and comparable state laws, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens.
 
Because our trucks travel over public highways to get to customers’ wells, the Company is subject to the regulations of the Department of Transportation. These regulations are very comprehensive and cover a wide variety of subjects from the maintenance and operation of vehicles to driver qualifications to safety. Violations of these regulations can result in penalties ranging from monetary fines to a restriction on the use of the vehicles. Under regulations effective July 1, 2010, an uncured violation of regulations could result in a shutdown of all of the vehicles of Heat Waves, Dillco or HWWM. The Company does not believe it is in violation of Department of Transportation regulations at this time that would result in a shutdown of vehicles.
 
 15



Some states and certain municipalities have regulated, or are considering regulating hydraulic fracturing (“fracking”) which, if accomplished, could impact certain of our operations. While the Company does not believe that existing regulations and contemplated actions to limit or prohibit fracking have impacted its activities to date, there can be no assurance that these actions, if taken on a wider scale, may not adversely impact the Company’s business operations and revenues. 
 
Employees
 
As of February 28, 2018, the Company employed 249 full time employees. Of these employees, 170 are employed by Heat Waves, 37 by Dillco, 27 by HWWM, and 15 are employed by Enservco. From time to time, the Company may hire contractors to perform work. 
 
Available Information
 
We maintain a website at http://www.enservco.com. The information contained on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the SEC.
 
In addition, we maintain our corporate governance documents on our website, including our:
 

● | Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees which contains information regarding our whistleblower procedures,
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Insider Trading Policy,
--+------------------------


● | Audit Committee Charter,
--+-------------------------


● | Compensation Committee Charter,
--+--------------------------------
● | Trading Blackout Policy, and 


● | Related Party Transaction Policy.
--+----------------------------------

