Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1.     Business
General
 
We were formed as a Delaware corporation in 1997. We are a diversified provider of truck components, oil and gas pipeline components and aerospace and defense electronics. We produce a wide range of manufactured products, often under multi-year, sole-source contracts. 
 
We are organized into two business segments, Sypris Technologies and Sypris Electronics. Sypris Technologies, which is comprised of Sypris Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, generates revenue primarily from the sale of forged, machined, welded and heat-treated steel components primarily for the heavy commercial vehicle and high-pressure energy pipeline applications. Sypris Electronics, which is comprised of Sypris Electronics, LLC, is focused on circuit card and full “box build” manufacturing, high reliability manufacturing, systems assembly and integration, design for manufacturability and design to specification work. Additionally, prior to August 16, 2016, Sypris Electronics also provided trusted solutions for identity management, cryptographic key distribution and cyber analytics. See “Sypris Electronics Outlook” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K and also Note 4 “CSS Sale” to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.
 
We focus on those markets where we believe we have the expertise, qualifications and leadership position to sustain a competitive advantage. We target our resources to support the needs of industry participants that embrace multi-year contractual relationships as a strategic component of their supply chain management. These contracts, many of which are sole-source by part number, historically have created opportunities to invest in leading-edge processes or technologies to help our customers remain competitive. The productivity and innovation that can result from such investments helps to differentiate us from our competition when it comes to cost, quality, reliability and customer service.
 
Our manufacturing processes frequently involve the fabrication or assembly of a product or subassembly according to specifications provided by our customers. We strive to enhance our manufacturing capabilities by advanced quality and manufacturing techniques, lean manufacturing, just-in-time procurement and continuous flow manufacturing, six sigma, total quality management, stringent and real-time engineering change control routines and total cycle time reduction techniques. At the same time, we are working to develop new designs and product innovations by re-engineering traditional solutions to eliminate cost without reducing durability or quality.
 
Sypris Technologies. Through Sypris Technologies, we are a significant supplier of forged and machined components, serving the commercial vehicle, off highway vehicle, light truck, automotive and energy markets in North America. We have the capacity to produce drive train components including axle shafts, transmission shafts, gear sets, steer axle forgings, and other components for ultimate use by the leading automotive and truck manufacturers, including FCA US (Fiat Chrysler Automobiles), Ford Motor Company (Ford), General Motors Company (GM), Nissan Motor Corporation (Nissan), Freightliner LLC (Freightliner), Mack Truck (Mack), Navistar International Corporation (Navistar), PACCAR, Inc. (PACCAR) and Volvo Truck Corporation (Volvo). We support our customers’ strategies to outsource non-core operations by supplying additional components and providing additional value added operations for drive train assemblies. We also manufacture high-pressure closures and other fabricated products for oil and gas pipelines.
 
Our manufacturing contracts for the truck components and assemblies markets are often sole-source by part number. Part numbers may be specified for inclusion in a single model or a range of models. Where we are the sole-source provider by part number, we are generally the exclusive provider to our customer of those specific parts and for the duration of the manufacturing contract.
 
Sypris Technologies also manufactures energy-related products such as pressurized closures, insulated joints and other specialty products, primarily for oil and gas pipelines and related energy markets. This product line has remained an independent source of diversified revenues and is becoming an area of greater focus for the Company going forward. We are committed to exploring new product developments and potential new markets, which will also be an increasing area of focus for the Company going forward. 
 
 1



As previously disclosed, the Company has embraced a strategic change in its business by repositioning away from certain of its traditional Tier 1 customers that represent the primary suppliers to the original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the commercial vehicle markets, while targeting to replace these customers with mutually beneficial relationships, especially among the heavy truck, off-highway and automotive OEMs and others who place a higher value on the Company’s innovation, flexibility and core commitment to lean manufacturing principles. Among the customer programs not being renewed was a supply agreement with Meritor Inc. (“Meritor”), which expired on January 1, 2017, which utilized production at the Company’s Louisville, Kentucky automotive and commercial vehicle manufacturing plant (the “Broadway Plant”). The Company similarly has not renewed certain portions of its business with Eaton Corporation (“Eaton”). As a result of these decisions, the Company experienced a significant reduction in its commercial vehicle revenues in 2017. The nonrenewal of the supply agreements with Meritor and Eaton accounted for a decrease of $18.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. However, the Company continues to supply significant volumes of component parts to Sistemas Automotrices de Mexico, S.A de C.V. ("Sistemas''), Meritor’s joint venture in Mexico, and continues to supply axle shafts to Meritor’s Brazilian subsidiary. This change in strategy culminated with the Company’s decision to exit the Broadway Plant, one of our largest commercial vehicle component manufacturing facilities, in an orderly fashion and consolidate certain assets from the Broadway Plant into other manufacturing facilities, as needed, to serve and grow our customer base. 
 
We have adjusted our overhead and infrastructure to be more in line with lower projected levels of customer demand and market requirements. We have developed plans to rebuild our revenues over time in order to become profitable again. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. There can be no assurances that such conditions will continue or that our efforts to cut costs and rebuild our revenues through new customers will be successful. 
 
Our net revenues from Sypris Technologies decreased $8.4 million from $63.3 million in 2016 to $54.9 million in 2017. Despite this decline, Sypris Technologies still represented approximately 67% of our net revenues in 2017.
 
Sypris Electronics. Sypris Electronics generates revenue primarily through circuit card and full box build manufacturing, high reliability manufacturing, systems assembly and integration, design for manufacturability and design to specification work to customers in the market for aerospace and defense electronics. This includes circuit card assemblies for electronic sensors and systems ranging from radar and targeting systems, tactical ground stations, navigation systems, weapons systems, targeting and warning systems and those used in the nation’s high priority space programs. Additionally, prior to August 16, 2016, Sypris Electronics also provided trusted solutions for identity management, cryptographic key distribution and cyber analytics and manufactured complex data storage systems. 
 
We provide our customers with a broad variety of value added solutions, from low-volume prototype assembly to high-volume turnkey manufacturing. Our manufacturing contracts for the aerospace and defense electronics market are generally sole-source by part number. Our customers include large aerospace and defense companies such as Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed Martin), Northrop Grumman Corporation (Northrop Grumman), Harris Corporation (Harris) and Analog Devices, Inc. (ADI).
 
The industry and business environment of Sypris Electronics is highly competitive and is impacted by policy and budget decisions of the U.S. Government, as well as economic conditions. Future budget cuts, or future procurement decisions associated with the U.S. Government’s authorization and appropriations process could result in reductions, cancellations and/or delays of Sypris Electronics’ existing contracts or programs. At the same time, we often must acquire certain inventories of hard-to-find component parts or those which require longer ordering lead times, at times without the assurance of firm production orders from our customers. Any of these impacts could have a material effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial position and/or cash flows. 
 
Net revenue from Sypris Electronics decreased $1.1 million from $28.5 million to $27.4 million in 2017 compared to the prior year. The prior year includes the results of the CSS product lines, which were sold in August 2016 impacting the revenue mix and gross profit comparison for the year-over-year periods (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K). Revenue from the remaining electronic manufacturing business increased $10.0 million over the prior year, reflecting the ramp-up of new programs. Sypris Electronics accounted for approximately 33% of net revenue in 2017, up from 31% of our net revenue in 2016 primarily due to the decline in revenues in Sypris Technologies.
 
 2



Our Markets
 
Sypris Technologies. The industrial manufacturing markets include automotive, truck and off-highway components and assemblies and specialty closures. The automotive and truck components and assemblies market consists of the original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, including FCA, Ford, Freightliner, GM, Mack, Navistar, PACCAR and Volvo, and an extensive supply chain of companies of all types and sizes that are classified into different levels or tiers. Tier 1 companies represent the primary suppliers to the OEMs and include Meritor, Dana, Detroit Diesel Corporation (Detroit Diesel), American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings, Inc. (America Axle) and Eaton, among others. Below this group of companies reside numerous suppliers that either supply the OEMs directly or supply the Tier I companies. In all segments of the truck components and assemblies, however, suppliers are under intense competitive pressure to improve product quality and to reduce capital expenditures, production costs and inventory levels. As noted above, the Company has determined to migrate away from certain of its traditional Tier 1 customers in the commercial vehicle markets, while seeking to replace these customers with mutually beneficial relationships, especially among the heavy truck, off-highway and automotive OEMs and others who place a higher value on the Company’s innovation, flexibility and core commitment to lean manufacturing principles. The customers for our specialty closure products consists primarily of operators and builders of oil and gas pipelines, which are also facing significant pressures to improve quality, reduce costs and defer capital expenditures. 
 
Sypris Electronics Although we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products, changes in or preferences for new or different technologies, general economic conditions and other factors may affect the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. 
 
Market conditions for our electronic manufacturing business are characterized by a number of obstacles. The nature of providing manufactured products to the aerospace and defense electronics industry as well as other regulated markets differs substantially from the commercial electronics manufacturing industry. The cost of failure can be extremely high, the manufacturing requirements are typically complex and products are produced in relatively small quantities. Companies within this industry are required to maintain and adhere to a number of strict and comprehensive certifications, security clearances and traceability standards. 
Our Business Strategy
 
Our objective is to improve our position in each of our core markets by increasing our number of multi-year contracts with customers and investing in highly innovative and efficient production capacity to remain competitive on a global scale. We intend to serve our customers and achieve this objective by continuing to:
 
Concentrate on our Core Markets. We are a significant supplier of forged, machined, welded and heat-treated components and subassemblies, serving the commercial vehicle, off highway vehicle, light truck and energy markets in North America. We have been an established supplier to major aerospace and defense companies and agencies of the U.S. Government for over 40 years. We will continue to focus on those markets where we have the expertise and qualifications to achieve a competitive advantage.
 
Dedicate our Resources to Support Strategic Partnerships. We will continue to prioritize our resources to support the needs of industry leaders that embrace multi-year contractual relationships as a strategic component of their supply chain management and have the potential for long-term growth. We prefer contracts that are sole-source by part number so we can work closely with the customer to the mutual benefit of both parties. 
 
Pursue the Strategic Acquisition of Assets. Over the long-term, we may consider the strategic acquisition of assets to consolidate our position in our core markets, expand our presence outside the U.S., create or strengthen our relationships with leading companies and expand our range of products in return for multi-year supply agreements. We target assets that can be integrated with our core businesses and that can be used to support other customers, thereby improving asset utilization and achieving greater productivity, flexibility and economies of scale. 
 
Grow Through the Addition of New Value-Added Manufacturing Capabilities. We hope to grow through the addition of new value-added manufacturing capabilities and the introduction of additional components in the supply chain that enable us to provide a more complete solution by improving quality and reducing product cost, inventory levels and cycle times for our customers. In many instances, we offer a variety of state-of-the-art machining capabilities to our customers in the industrial manufacturing markets that enable us to reduce labor and shipping costs and minimize cycle times for our customers over the long-term, providing us with additional growth opportunities in the future. 
 
 3



We believe that the number and duration of our strategic relationships should grow to enable us to invest in our business with greater certainty and with less risk. The investments we make in support of these relationships are targeted to provide us with the productivity, flexibility, technological edge and economies of scale that we believe will help to differentiate us from the competition in the future when it comes to cost, quality, reliability and customer service. 
 
Our Customers
 
Our five largest customers in 2017 were Detroit Diesel, Northrup Grumman, Sistemas, Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications LLC (Tyco) and Harris, which in the aggregate accounted for 52% of net revenue. Our five largest customers in 2016 were Meritor, Sistemas, Detroit Diesel, Northrup Grumman and Eaton, which in the aggregate accounted for 53% of net revenue. In 2017, Detroit Diesel, Northrup Grumman and Sistemas represented approximately 14%, 13% and 13% of our net revenue, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue in 2017. In 2016, Meritor, Sistemas and Detroit Diesel represented approximately 19%, 12% and 10% of our net revenue, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue in 2016. 
Geographic Areas and Currency Fluctuations
 
Our operations are located in the U.S. and Mexico. Our Mexican subsidiaries and affiliates are a part of Sypris Technologies and manufacture and sell a number of products similar to those Sypris Technologies produces or previously produced in the U.S. In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the U.S. may be subject to a greater risk of changing political, economic and social environments, changing governmental laws and regulations, currency revaluations and market fluctuations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have primarily impacted our earnings only to the extent of remeasurement gains or losses related to U.S. dollar denominated accounts of our foreign subsidiaries, because the vast majority of our transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, “other income, net” included foreign currency translation losses of $0.8 million and gains of $1.0 million, respectively. 
Net revenues from Mexican operations were $22.9 million, or 28%, and $11.7 million, or 13%, of our consolidated net revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2017, net loss from our Mexican operations was $4.3 million, as compared to our consolidated net loss of $10.7 million. In 2016, net income from our Mexican operations was $0.9 million, as compared to our consolidated net income of $6.0 million. Revenues from our Mexican operations are expected to grow significantly as a percentage of our consolidated net revenues, especially in connection with the shutdown of the Broadway Plant, which occurred at the end of 2017. You can find more information about our regional operating results, including our export sales, in Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Sales and Business Development
 
Our principal sources of new business originate from the expansion of existing relationships, referrals and direct sales through senior management, direct sales personnel, domestic and international sales representatives, distributors and market specialists.  We supplement these selling efforts with a variety of sales literature, advertising in trade media and participating in trade shows. We also utilize engineering specialists to facilitate the sales process by working with potential customers to reduce the cost of the products they need. Our specialists achieve this objective by working with the customer to improve their product’s design for ease of manufacturing or by reducing the amount of set-up time or material that may be required to produce the product. The award of contracts or programs can be a lengthy process, which in some circumstances can extend well beyond 24 months. Upon occasion, we commit resources to potential contracts or programs that we ultimately do not win. 
 
Our objective is to increase the value we provide to the customer on an annual basis beyond the contractual terms that may be contained in a supply agreement.  To achieve this objective, we commit to the customer that we will continuously look for ways to reduce the cost, improve the quality, reduce the cycle time and improve the life span of the products we supply the customer. Our ability to deliver on this commitment over time is expected to have a significant impact on customer satisfaction, loyalty and follow-on business.
 
 4



Since the beginning of 2015, we have signed long term supply agreements with Detroit Diesel, Volvo and Transmisiones y Equipos Mecanicos, S.A. de C.V. (“Tremec”). We have also been awarded purchase orders for various products and components from American Axle, Meritor, Sistemas, and Dana. We have launched the Sypris Ultra® axle shaft with Detroit Diesel and have strong interest from others within the customer base who are interested in this patented product. We are continuing to explore other opportunities as they arise and have a significant list of outstanding quotations in progress, but there can be no assurances that our efforts to develop new sources of revenues will be successful. 
 
Competition
 
The markets that we serve are highly competitive, and we compete against numerous domestic and international companies in addition to the internal capabilities of some of our customers. In the industrial manufacturing markets, we compete primarily against other component suppliers such as Ramkrishna Forgings Limited, Mid-West Forge, Inc., GNA Axles Limited, Brunner International, Inc., Bharat Forge, Commercial Forged Products, Spencer Forge and Machine, Inc., Traxle, SPX Flow, Inc., T.D. Williamson Inc. and National Oilwell Varco, Inc., certain of which serve as suppliers to many Tier I and smaller companies. In the aerospace and defense electronics market, we compete primarily against companies such as Celestica Inc., Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Spartan Corporation. We may face new competitors in the future as the outsourcing industry evolves and existing or start-up companies develop capabilities similar to ours. In addition, we will face new competitors as we attempt to increase and expand our business.
 
We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets include the availability of capacity, currency exchange rates (especially in low-cost countries), technological capability, flexibility, financial strength and timeliness in responding to design and schedule changes, price, quality and delivery. Although we believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to many of these factors, some of our competitors, as compared to us, are larger and have greater financial and operating resources, greater geographic breadth and range of products, customer bases and brand recognition than we do. We also face competition from manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers that continually evaluate the relative benefits of internal manufacturing compared to outsourcing. 
 
Suppliers
 
For portions of our business, we purchase raw materials and component parts from our customers or from suppliers chosen by our customers, at prices negotiated by our customers. When these suppliers increase their prices, cause delays in production schedules or fail to meet our customers’ quality standards, our customers have contractually agreed to reimburse us for the costs associated with such price increases and not to charge us for costs caused by such delays or quality issues. Accordingly, our risks are largely limited to accurate inspections of such materials, timely communications and the collection of such reimbursements or charges, along with any additional costs incurred by us due to delays in, interruptions of, or non-optimal scheduling of production schedules. However, for a growing part of our business, we arrange our own suppliers and assume the additional risks of price increases, quality concerns and production delays.
 
Raw steel and fabricated steel parts are a major component of our cost of sales and net revenue for the industrial manufacturing business. We purchase a portion of our steel for use in this business at the direction of our customers, with periodic changes in the price of steel being reflected in the prices we are paid for our products. Increases in the costs of steel or other supplies can increase our working capital requirements, scrap expenses and borrowing costs.
 
There can be no assurance that supply interruptions or price increases will not slow production, delay shipments to our customers or increase costs in the future, any of which could adversely affect our financial results. Delays, interruptions or non-optimal scheduling of production related to interruptions in raw materials supplies can be expected to increase our costs.
 
 5



Research and Development
 
Our research and development expenditures were mainly related to our product lines that served the aerospace and defense electronics market. With the sale of the CSS business in August 2016, we expect research and development costs to be minimal going forward. Process improvement expenditures related to our manufacturing process are not reflected in research and development expense. Accordingly, our research and development expense represents a relatively small percentage of our net revenue. Company-sponsored research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We invested an immaterial amount in research and development in 2017 and $0.3 million in 2016. 
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses
 
We own or license a number of patents and trademarks, but our business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any one patent, trademark, license or technologically related group of patents or licenses.
 
We regard our manufacturing processes and certain designs as proprietary trade secrets and confidential information.  We rely largely upon a combination of trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers and consultants, and our internal security systems, confidentiality procedures and employee confidentiality agreements to maintain the trade secrecy of our designs and manufacturing processes.
 
Government Regulation
 
Our operations are subject to compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities, in the U.S. and Mexico, including regulations concerning financial reporting and controls, labor relations, minimum pension funding levels, export and import matters, health and safety matters and protection of the environment. While compliance with applicable regulations has not adversely affected our operations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future or that these regulations will not change or that the costs of compliance will not be material to us.
 
We must comply with detailed government procurement and contracting regulations and with U.S. Government security regulations, certain of which carry substantial penalty provisions for nonperformance or misrepresentation in the course of negotiations.  Our failure to comply with our government procurement, contracting or security obligations could result in penalties or our suspension or debarment from government contracting, which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.
 
We are required to maintain U.S. Government security clearances in connection with certain activities of Sypris Electronics. These clearances could be suspended or revoked if we were found not to be in compliance with applicable security regulations. Any such revocation or suspension would delay our delivery of products to customers. Although we have adopted policies designed to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, there can be no assurance that the approved status of our facilities or personnel will continue without interruption.
 
We are also subject to comprehensive and changing federal, state and local environmental requirements, both in the U.S. and in Mexico, including those governing discharges to air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. We use hazardous substances in our operations and, as is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from any properties that we may own or operate, we may be held liable and may be required to pay the cost of remedying the condition. The amount of any resulting liability could be material.
 
 6



Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of 607 employees, of which 451 were engaged in manufacturing, 14 were engaged in sales and marketing, 51 were engaged in engineering and 91 were engaged in administration. Approximately 349 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions that expire on various dates through 2019. Excluding certain Mexico employees covered under an annually ratified agreement, there are no collective bargaining agreements expiring within the next 12 months. In response to the reduction of business from 2015 through 2017, we have engaged in layoffs during the past three years, and our ability to maintain our workforce depends on our ability to attract and retain new and existing customers. Although we believe overall that relations with our labor unions are positive, there can be no assurance that present and future issues with our unions will be resolved favorably, that negotiations will be successful or that we will not experience a work stoppage, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. 
Internet Access
 
Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.sypris.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 7



