Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS
------------+---------

Company Overview and Principal Products and Services
 
Perma-Fix Environmental Services, Inc. (the Company, which may be referred to as we, us, or our), a Delaware corporation incorporated in December of 1990, is an environmental and environmental technology know-how company.
 
We have grown through acquisitions and internal growth. Our goal is to continue to focus on the safe and efficient operation of our three waste treatment facilities and on-site activities, identify and pursue strategic acquisitions to expand our market base, and conduct research and development (“R&D”) of innovative technologies to solve complex waste management challenges providing increased value to our clients. The Company continues to focus on expansion into both commercial and international markets to supplement government spending in the USA, from which a significant portion of the Company’s revenue is derived. This includes new services, new customers and increased market share in our current markets.
 
Additionally, our goal is for our majority-owned subsidiary, Perma-Fix Medical S.A. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Perma-Fix Medical Corporation (“PFM Corporation” – a Delaware corporation) (together known as “PF Medical” or our “Medical Segment), to raise the necessary capital to continue its R&D activities in order to pursue commercialization of its medical isotope production technology (see “Medical Segment” below for further information in connection with this segment).
 
Segment Information and Foreign and Domestic Operations and Sales
 
The Company has three reportable segments. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC 280, “Segment Reporting”, we define an operating segment as:
 

● | a business activity from which we may earn revenue and incur expenses; 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker “(CODM”) to make decisions about resources to be allocated and assess its performance; and 
● | for which discrete financial information is available. 

 
TREATMENT SEGMENT reporting includes:
 

- | nuclear, low-level radioactive, mixed (waste containing both hazardous and low-level radioactive waste), hazardous and non-hazardous waste treatment, processing and disposal services primarily through three uniquely licensed (Nuclear Regulatory Commission or state equivalent) and permitted (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or state equivalent) treatment and storage facilities held by the following subsidiaries: Perma-Fix of Florida, Inc. (“PFF”), Diversified Scientific Services, Inc., (“DSSI”), and Perma-Fix Northwest Richland, Inc. (“PFNWR”). The presence of nuclear and low-level radioactive constituents within the waste streams processed by this segment creates different and unique operational, processing and permitting/licensing requirements; and 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- | R&D activities to identify, develop and implement innovative waste processing techniques for problematic waste streams. 

 
The Company continues with the closure of its East Tennessee Materials and Energy Corporation (“M&EC”) facility within the Treatment Segment. Operations at the M&EC facility are limited during the remaining term of the lease and the facility continues to transition waste shipments and operational capabilities to our other Treatment Segment facilities, subject to customer requirements and regulatory approvals. Simultaneously, the Company continues with closure and decommissioning activities in accordance with M&EC’s license and permit requirements. Current plans are to complete closure activities by the end of the facility’s lease term, which has been extended to June 30, 2018 from January 21, 2018.
 
For 2017, the Treatment Segment accounted for $37,750,000 or 75.9% of total revenue, as compared to $32,253,000 or 63.0% of total revenue for 2016. Treatment Segment revenues for 2017 and 2016 included revenues of $6,312,000 and $4,419,000 for the M&EC subsidiary, which is currently in closure status. See “– Dependence Upon a Single or Few Customers” for further details and a discussion as to our Segments’ contracts with the federal government or with others as a subcontractor to the federal government.
 

1
-

 

SERVICES SEGMENT reporting includes:
 

- | Technical services, which include: 
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 | ○ | professional radiological measurement and site survey of large government and commercial installations using advanced methods, technology and engineering; 
 | ○ | integrated Occupational Safety and Health services including industrial hygiene (“IH”) assessments; hazardous materials surveys, e.g., exposure monitoring; lead and asbestos management/abatement oversight; indoor air quality evaluations; health risk and exposure assessments; health & safety plan/program development, compliance auditing and training services; and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) citation assistance; 
 | ○ | global technical services providing consulting, engineering, project management, waste management, environmental, decontamination and decommissioning (“D&D”) field, technical, and management personnel and services to commercial and government customers; and 
 | ○ | on-site waste management services to commercial and government customers. 
- | Nuclear services, which include: 
 | ○ | technology-based services including engineering, D&D, specialty services and construction, logistics, transportation, processing and disposal; 
 | ○ | remediation of nuclear licensed and federal facilities and the remediation cleanup of nuclear legacy sites. Such services capability includes: project investigation; radiological engineering; partial and total plant D&D; facility decontamination, dismantling, demolition, and planning; site restoration; logistics; transportation; and emergency response; and 
- | a company owned equipment calibration and maintenance laboratory that services, maintains, calibrates, and sources (i.e., rental) health physics, IH and customized nuclear, environmental, and occupational safety and health (“NEOSH”) instrumentation. 

 
For 2017, the Services Segment accounted for $12,019,000 or 24.1% of total revenue, as compared to $18,966,000 or 37.0% of total revenue for 2016. See “ – Dependence Upon a Single or Few Customers” for further details and a discussion as to our Segments’ contracts with the federal government or with others as a subcontractor to the federal government
 
MEDICAL SEGMENT reporting includes: R&D costs for the new medical isotope production technology from our majority-owned Polish subsidiary (of which we own approximately 60.5% at December 31, 2017), PF Medical. The Medical Segment has not generated any revenue as it continues to be primarily in the R&D stage. R&D costs consist primarily of employee salaries and benefits, laboratory costs, third party fees, and other related costs associated with the development of new technology. As previously disclosed, during the latter part of 2016, our Medical Segment ceased a substantial portion of its R&D activities for the new medical isotope production technology due to the need for substantial capital to fund such activities. We anticipate that our Medical Segment will not restart its full scale R&D activities until it obtains the necessary funding.
 
Our Treatment and Services Segments provide services to research institutions, commercial companies, public utilities, and governmental agencies nationwide, including the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) and U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”). The distribution channels for our services are through direct sales to customers or via intermediaries.
 
Our corporate office is located at 8302 Dunwoody Place, Suite 250, Atlanta, Georgia 30350.
 
Foreign Revenue 
 
Our consolidated revenue for 2017 and 2016 included approximately $84,000 or 0.2% and $139,000 or 0.3%, respectively, from our United Kingdom operation, Perma-Fix UK Limited (“PF UK Limited”).
 

2
-

 

Our consolidated revenue for 2017 and 2016 included approximately $1,073,000 or 2.2% and $262,000 or 0.5%, respectively, from Canadian customers (including revenues generated by our Perma-Fix of Canada, Inc. (“PF Canada”) subsidiary).
 
Importance of Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Technology
 
We do not believe we are dependent on any particular trademark in order to operate our business or any significant segment thereof. We have received registration to May 2022 and December 2020, for the service marks “Perma-Fix Environmental Services” and “Perma-Fix”, respectively. We also have registration to April 2023 for a service mark for PF Canada. In addition, we have received registration for two service marks for our Safety & Ecology Holdings Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively known as “Safety and Ecology Corporation” or “SEC”) to periods ranging from 2018 to 2027.
 
We are active in the R&D of technologies that allow us to address certain of our customers’ environmental needs. To date, we have fifteen active patents and the filing of several applications for which patents are pending. These fifteen active patents have remaining lives ranging from approximately one to seventeen years. These active patents include an U.S and an international patent for new technology for the production of radiological isotopes for certain types of medical applications; and which have been licensed to PFM Corporation. These patents are effective through March 2032.
 
Permits and Licenses
 
Waste management service companies are subject to extensive, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Such federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations govern our activities regarding the treatment, storage, processing, disposal and transportation of hazardous, non-hazardous and radioactive wastes, and require us to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and/or approvals in order to conduct certain of our waste activities. We are dependent on our permits and licenses discussed below in order to operate our businesses. Failure to obtain and maintain our permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us, our operations, and financial condition. The permits and licenses have terms ranging from one to ten years, and provided that we maintain a reasonable level of compliance, renew with minimal effort, and cost. We believe that these permit and license requirements represent a potential barrier to entry for possible competitors.
 
PFF, located in Gainesville, Florida, operates its hazardous, mixed and low-level radioactive waste activities under a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) Part B permit, Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) authorization, Restricted RX Drug Distributor-Destruction license, and a radioactive materials license issued by the State of Florida.
 
DSSI, located in Kingston, Tennessee, conducts mixed and low-level radioactive waste storage and treatment activities under RCRA Part B permits and a radioactive materials license issued by the State of Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. Co-regulated TSCA Polychlorinated Biphenyl (“PCB”) wastes are also managed for PCB destruction under the EPA Approval effective June 2008.
 
PFNWR, located in Richland, Washington, operates a low-level radioactive waste processing facility as well as a mixed waste processing facility. Radioactive material processing is authorized under radioactive materials licenses issued by the State of Washington and mixed waste processing is additionally authorized under a RCRA Part B permit with TSCA authorization issued jointly by the State of Washington and the EPA.
 
M&EC, located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, performs hazardous, low-level radioactive and mixed waste storage and treatment operations under a RCRA Part B permit and a radioactive materials license issued by the State of Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation. Co-regulated TSCA PCB wastes are also managed under EPA Approvals applicable to site-specific treatment units. The M&EC facility is currently undergoing closure activity requirements. The Company fully impaired the permit value of approximately $8,288,000 for our M&EC subsidiary in 2016. The permits at M&EC will be terminated upon completion of requirements pursuant to M&EC’s closure plan.
 

3
-

 

The combination of a RCRA Part B hazardous waste permit, TSCA authorization, and a radioactive materials license, as held by our Treatment Segment are very difficult to obtain for a single facility and make these facilities unique.
 
We believe that the permitting and licensing requirements, and the cost to obtain such permits, are barriers to the entry of hazardous waste and radioactive and mixed waste activities as presently operated by our waste treatment subsidiaries. If the permit requirements for hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal (“TSD”) activities and/or the licensing requirements for the handling of low level radioactive matters are eliminated or if such licenses or permits were made less rigorous to obtain, we believe such would allow companies to enter into these markets and provide greater competition.
 
Backlog
 
The Treatment Segment of our Company maintains a backlog of stored waste, which represents waste that has not been processed. The backlog is principally a result of the timing and complexity of the waste being brought into the facilities and the selling price per container. At December 31, 2017, our Treatment Segment had a backlog of approximately $7,666,000, as compared to approximately $5,250,000 at December 31, 2016. Additionally, the time it takes to process waste from the time it arrives may increase due to the types and complexities of the waste we are currently receiving. We typically process our backlog during periods of low waste receipts, which historically has been in the first or fourth quarters.
Dependence Upon a Single or Few Customers
 
Our Treatment and Services Segments have significant relationships with the federal government, and continue to enter into contracts, directly as the prime contractor or indirectly for others as a subcontractor, with the federal government. The contracts that we are a party to with the federal government or with others as a subcontractor to the federal government generally provide that the government may terminate or renegotiate the contracts on 30 days notice, at the government’s election. Our inability to continue under existing contracts that we have with the federal government (directly or indirectly as a subcontractor) could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.
 
We performed services relating to waste generated by the federal government representing approximately $36,654,000 or 73.6% of our total revenue during 2017, as compared to $27,354,000 or 53.4% of our total revenue during 2016.
 
Revenue generated by one of the customers (PSC Metal, Inc.) (non-government related and excluded from above) in the Services Segment accounted for approximately $9,763,000 or 19.1% of the total revenues generated for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016. Project work for this customer commenced in March 2016 and was completed in December 2016.
 
As our revenues are project/event based where the completion of one contract with a specific customer may be replaced by another contract with a different customer from year to year, we do not believe the loss of one specific customer from one year to the next will generally have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.
 
Competitive Conditions
 
The Treatment Segment’s largest competitor is EnergySolutions (“ES”) which operates treatment facilities in Oak Ridge, TN and Erwin, TN and a disposal facility for low level radioactive waste in Clive, UT. Waste Control Specialists (“WCS”), which has licensed disposal capabilities for low level radioactive waste in Andrews, TX, is also a competitor in the treatment market with increasing market share. Perma-Fix now has two options for disposal of treated nuclear waste and thus mitigates prior risk of ES providing the only outlet for disposal. The Treatment Segment treats and disposes of DOE generated wastes largely at DOE owned sites. Smaller competitors are also present in the market place; however, we believe they do not present a significant challenge at this time. Our Treatment Segment currently solicits business primarily on a North American basis with both government and commercial clients; however, we continue to focus on emerging international markets for additional work.

4
-

 

Our Services Segment is engaged in highly competitive businesses in which a number of our government contracts and some of our commercial contracts are awarded through competitive bidding processes. The extent of such competition varies according to the industries and markets in which our customers operate as well as the geographic areas in which we operate. The degree and type of competition we face is also often influenced by the project specification being bid on and the different specialty skill sets of each bidder for which our Services Segment competes, especially projects subject to the governmental bid process. We also have the ability to prime federal government small business procurements (small business set asides). Based on past experience, we believe that large businesses are more willing to team with small businesses in order to be part of these often substantial procurements. There are a number of qualified small businesses in our market that will provide intense competition that may provide a challenge to our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. For international business there are additional competitors, many from within the country the work is to be performed, making winning work in foreign countries more challenging. If our Services Segment is unable to meet these competitive challenges, it could lose market share and experience an overall reduction in its profits.
 
Certain Environmental Expenditures and Potential Environmental Liabilities
 
Environmental Liabilities
 
We have three remediation projects, which are currently in progress at our Perma-Fix of Dayton, Inc. (“PFD”), Perma-Fix of Memphis, Inc. (“PFM”), and Perma-Fix South Georgia, Inc. (“PFSG”) subsidiaries, which are all included within our discontinued operations. These remediation projects principally entail the removal/remediation of contaminated soil and, in most cases, the remediation of surrounding ground water. These remediation activities are closely reviewed and monitored by the applicable state regulators.
 
At December 31, 2017, we had total accrued environmental remediation liabilities of $871,000, of which $632,000 are recorded as a current liability, a decrease of $54,000 from the December 31, 2016 balance of $925,000. The net decrease of $54,000 represents payments on remediation projects at PFSG and PFD totaling approximately of $79,000 and an increase to the reserve of approximately $25,000 at PFD due to reassessment of the remediation reserve.
 
No insurance or third party recovery was taken into account in determining our cost estimates or reserves.
 
The nature of our business exposes us to significant cost to comply with governmental environmental laws, rules and regulations and risk of liability for damages. Such potential liability could involve, for example, claims for cleanup costs, personal injury or damage to the environment in cases where we are held responsible for the release of hazardous materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; and claims alleging negligence or professional errors or omissions in the planning or performance of our services. In addition, we could be deemed a responsible party for the costs of required cleanup of properties, which may be contaminated by hazardous substances generated or transported by us to a site we selected, including properties owned or leased by us. We could also be subject to fines and civil penalties in connection with violations of regulatory requirements.
 
Research and Development (“R&D”)
 
Innovation and technical know-how by our operations is very important to the success of our business. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative ways to process waste that address unmet environmental needs. We conduct research internally, and also through collaborations with other third parties. The majority of our research activities are performed as we receive new and unique waste to treat. Our competitors also devote resources to R&D and many such competitors have greater resources at their disposal than we do. As previously discussed, our Medical Segment ceased a substantial portion of its R&D activities during the latter part of 2016 due to the need for substantial capital to fund such activities. We are continually exploring ways to raise this capital. We anticipate that our Medical Segment will not restart its full scale R&D activities until it obtains the necessary funding. We have estimated that during 2017 and 2016, we spent approximately $1,595,000 and $2,046,000, respectively, in R&D activities, of which approximately $1,141,000 and $1,489,000, respectively, were spent by our Medical Segment for the R&D of its medical isotope production technology.
 

5
-

Number of Employees
 
In our service-driven business, our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. At December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 246 employees, of whom 236 are full-time employees and 10 are part-time/temporary employees.
Governmental Regulation
 
Environmental companies, such as us, and their customers are subject to extensive and evolving environmental laws and regulations by a number of national, state and local environmental, safety and health agencies, the principal of which being the EPA. These laws and regulations largely contribute to the demand for our services. Although our customers remain responsible by law for their environmental problems, we must also comply with the requirements of those laws applicable to our services. We cannot predict the extent to which our operations may be affected by future enforcement policies as applied to existing laws or by the enactment of new environmental laws and regulations. Moreover, any predictions regarding possible liability are further complicated by the fact that under current environmental laws we could be jointly and severally liable for certain activities of third parties over whom we have little or no control. Although we believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities or could be adversely affected by existing or subsequently enacted laws or regulations. The principal environmental laws affecting our customers and us are briefly discussed below.
 
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended (“RCRA”)
 
RCRA and its associated regulations establish a strict and comprehensive permitting and regulatory program applicable to companies, such as us, that treat, store or dispose of hazardous waste. The EPA has promulgated regulations under RCRA for new and existing treatment, storage and disposal facilities including incinerators, storage and treatment tanks, storage containers, storage and treatment surface impoundments, waste piles and landfills. Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous waste must obtain a RCRA permit or must obtain interim status from the EPA, or a state agency, which has been authorized by the EPA to administer its program, and must comply with certain operating, financial responsibility and closure requirements.
 
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA,” also referred to as the “Superfund Act”)
 
CERCLA governs the cleanup of sites at which hazardous substances are located or at which hazardous substances have been released or are threatened to be released into the environment. CERCLA authorizes the EPA to compel responsible parties to clean up sites and provides for punitive damages for noncompliance. CERCLA imposes joint and several liabilities for the costs of clean up and damages to natural resources.
 
Health and Safety Regulations
 
The operation of our environmental activities is subject to the requirements of the OSHA and comparable state laws. Regulations promulgated under OSHA by the Department of Labor require employers of persons in the transportation and environmental industries, including independent contractors, to implement hazard communications, work practices and personnel protection programs in order to protect employees from equipment safety hazards and exposure to hazardous chemicals.
Atomic Energy Act
 
The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 governs the safe handling and use of Source, Special Nuclear and Byproduct materials in the U.S. and its territories. This act authorized the Atomic Energy Commission (now the Nuclear Regulatory Commission “USNRC”) to enter into “Agreements with states to carry out those regulatory functions in those respective states except for Nuclear Power Plants and federal facilities like the VA hospitals and the DOE operations.” The State of Florida (with the USNRC oversight), Office of Radiation Control, regulates the permitting and radiological program of the PFF facility, and the State of Tennessee (with the USNRC oversight), Tennessee Department of Radiological Health, regulates permitting and the radiological program of the DSSI and M&EC facilities. The State of Washington (with the USNRC oversight) Department of Health, regulates permitting and the radiological operations of the PFNWR facility.

6
-

Other Laws
 
Our activities are subject to other federal environmental protection and similar laws, including, without limitation, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act and the TSCA. Many states have also adopted laws for the protection of the environment which may affect us, including laws governing the generation, handling, transportation and disposition of hazardous substances and laws governing the investigation and cleanup of, and liability for, contaminated sites. Some of these state provisions are broader and more stringent than existing federal law and regulations. Our failure to conform our services to the requirements of any of these other applicable federal or state laws could subject us to substantial liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on us, our operations and financial condition. In addition to various federal, state and local environmental regulations, our hazardous waste transportation activities are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Interstate Commerce Commission and transportation regulatory bodies in the states in which we operate. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by any law or rule that may be enacted or enforced in the future, or any new or different interpretations of existing laws or rules.
