Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
OVERVIEW
On October 17, 2017, Impax Laboratories, Inc., a Delaware corporation listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Impax”) and Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC, a privately held Delaware limited liability company (“Amneal”), announced their agreement to combine the generics and specialty pharmaceutical business of Impax with the generic drug development and manufacturing business of Amneal pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement (the “BCA”), dated as of October 17, 2017, as amended on November 21, 2017 and December 16, 2017, by and among Impax, Amneal, Atlas Holdings, Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Impax (“Atlas Holdings,” the “Company”, “we” or “our”) and K2 Merger Sub Corporation, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Atlas Holdings (“Merger Sub”),and the transactions contemplated thereby (the “Combination”).
The Combination includes (i) the merger of Impax with Merger Sub with Impax surviving the merger as a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Atlas Holdings (the “Impax Merger”), (ii) the conversion of the surviving corporation of the Impax Merger into a Delaware limited liability company, (iii) the contribution by Atlas Holdings of all of the equity interests of Impax to Amneal in exchange for certain equity interests of Amneal and (iv) the issuance by Atlas Holdings of shares of its Class B common stock to the existing members of Amneal (the “Existing Amneal Members”). Following completion of the Combination, the combined businesses will operate under Atlas Holdings as a new holding company, which will be renamed Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We refer to “New Amneal” throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to the renamed company after the closing of the Combination. 
In connection with the Combination, each share of common stock of Impax will be converted into the right to receive one share of New Amneal Class A common stock. Holders of Impax common stock (“Impax Stockholders”) immediately prior to the Combination will collectively hold approximately 25%, and the Existing Amneal Members will hold approximately 75%, of the voting and economic interests in the combined businesses of Impax and Amneal under New Amneal. Following the closing of the Combination and the investment by certain institutional investors including TPG Improv Holdings, L.P. and funds affiliated with Fidelity Management & Research Company (the “PIPE Investment”), it is expected that the Existing Amneal Members will hold approximately 60% of the voting power of the outstanding New Amneal Shares (as defined below) and TPG Improv Holdings, L.P. and other institutional investors will hold approximately 15% of the voting power of the outstanding New Amneal Shares.
Atlas Holdings is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Impax and Merger Sub is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Atlas Holdings. Both Atlas Holdings and Merger Sub were incorporated on October 4, 2017 under the laws of the State of Delaware for the purpose of entering into the BCA. 
Atlas Holdings and Merger Sub have not conducted any business operations other than that which are incidental to its formation and in connection with the transactions contemplated by the BCA. Upon the closing of the Combination, as described above, Atlas Holdings will be renamed Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and will become a holding company whose principal asset will be the economic interests in the combined business of Impax and Amneal. Immediately following the completion of the Combination and the PIPE Investment, New Amneal’s equity capital will consist solely of the Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class B-1 Common Stock (collectively, the “New Amneal Shares”) issued pursuant to the Combination and in connection with the PIPE Investment. It is expected that the shares of Class A Common Stock of Atlas Holdings will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “AMRX”. 
The principal executive offices of Atlas Holdings are located at 30831 Huntwood Avenue, Hayward, California 94544 and its telephone number at that address is 510-240-6000. 
On October 11, 2017, Atlas Holdings issued 1,000 uncertificated shares of its common stock to Impax at the purchase price of $0.01 per share. Atlas Holdings has not issued any other shares of its common stock. 
