Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
The Company
 
As used herein the terms “we”, “us”, “our,” “NFEC” and the “Company” means, NF Energy Saving Corporation, a Delaware corporation, formerly known as NF Energy Saving Corporation of America, Diagnostic Corporation of America, Global Broadcast Group, Inc., and Galli Process, Inc. These terms also include our subsidiaries, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“PRC”), and Liaoning Nengfa Tiefa Import & Export Co., Ltd., a limited liability corporation organized and existing under the laws of the PRC.
 
NF Energy Saving Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware under the name of Galli Process, Inc. on October 31, 2000 for the purpose of seeking and consummating a merger or acquisition with a business entity organized as a private corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship. On December 31, 2001, Galli Process, Inc. became a majority owned subsidiary of City View TV, Inc., a Florida corporation (“City View”). On February 7, 2002, Galli Process, Inc. changed its name to Global Broadcast Group, Inc. On March 1, 2002, City View merged into Global Broadcast Group, Inc., which was the surviving entity. On November 12, 2004, the Company changed its name to Diagnostic Corporation of America. On March 15, 2007, we changed our name to NF Energy Saving Corporation of America, and on August 24, 2009, the Company further changed its name to NF Energy Saving Corporation, in both instances to more accurately reflect our business after the Plan of Exchange (see below). Our principal place of business is 3106, Tower C, 390 Qingnian Avenue, Heping District, Shenyang, P. R. China 110015. Our telephone number is (8624) 2560-9775.
 
On November 15, 2006, we executed a Plan of Exchange (“Plan of Exchange”), among the Company, Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Pipe Network Construction and Operation Co. Ltd. (“Nengfa”), the shareholders of Nengfa (the "Nengfa Shareholders") and Gang Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“Mr. Li”). At the closing of the Plan of Exchange, which occurred on November 30, 2006, we issued to the Nengfa Shareholders 12,000,000 shares of our common stock, or 89.4% of our then outstanding common stock, in exchange for all of the shares of capital stock of Nengfa owned by the Nengfa Shareholders. Immediately upon the closing, Nengfa became our 100% owned subsidiary, and the Company adopted and implemented the business plan of Nengfa.
 
On January 31, 2008, to better reflect our energy technology business, we changed the name of Nengfa to Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Company Ltd. (“Nengfa Energy”). Nengfa Energy’s area of business includes research and development, processing, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of energy saving flow control equipment; manufacturing, marketing and distribution of energy equipment, wind power equipment and fittings; energy saving technical reconstruction; and energy saving technology consulting services.
 
On August 26, 2009, the Company completed a 3 to 1 reverse share split of its common stock. As a result, the total number of shares of outstanding common stock changed from 39,872,704 pre-split to 13,291,387 post-split shares.
 

3
-

 

On September 15, 2010 the Company completed a 2.5 to 1 reverse share split of its common stock, the total number of shares of outstanding common stock changed from 13,315,486 pre-split to 5,326,501 post-split shares.
 
On October 4, 2010 our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. On March 7, 2012, and upon approval by NASDAQ, our common stock transferred from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market, Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “NFEC”.
 
On November 26, 2015 , a new company devoting to intelligent products was set up which is named by “Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Smart Valve Technology Co. Ltd”. (“Nengfa Smart Valve”). On March 8, 2017, “Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Smart Valve Technology Co. Ltd was named by “Liaoning Nengfa Tiefa Import and Export Co., Ltd.” in order to make further business activities. Liaoning Nengfa Weiye Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Owns approximately 57% of the shares in this Company.
 
The structure of our corporate organization is as follows:
 

Business Description
 
NFEC is dedicated to energy efficiency enhancement in two fields: (1) manufacturing large diameter energy efficient intelligent flow control systems for thermal and nuclear power generation plants, major national and regional water supply projects and municipal water, gas and heat supply pipeline networks; and (2) energy saving technology consulting, optimization design services, energy saving reconstruction of pipeline networks and contractual energy management services for China’s electric power, petrochemical, coal, metallurgy, construction, and municipal infrastructure industries.
 
NFEC has received many awards and honors from China's regulators, professional associations and renowned international organizations, including the ISO 9001:2008 certification from Det Norske Veritas Management System, the Liaoning Provincial Government's Award of Innovative Enterprise with Best Investment Return Potentials, the Special Industrial Contribution Award of the ESCO Committee of China Energy Conservation Association, and the “Contract-abiding and credit enterprise” Award by the Liaoning State Local administrative bureau for industry and commerce. NFEC was awarded of “Hi-tech enterprise” by Liaoning Technology bureau in 2013.
 

4
-

 

NFEC enjoys a reputation as a leader and dedicated energy saving company in China for over 15 years. Its professional capacity as a provider of energy services is officially certified by China’s National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC). It has been a corporate member on the Board of the ESCO Committee of China Energy Conservation Association and a founding member of China Standardization and Technical Consortium for Energy Conservation and Emission.
 
As a certified energy service provider, NFEC is entitled to various tax breaks and energy saving awards created by Chinese governments at national, provincial and local levels. The major tax incentives by the central government include a two-year corporate income tax exemption plus a three-year reduction of corporation income tax for all energy performance based, profit sharing energy service projects. The government policy also incentivizes NFEC's clients with tax refunds on goods and properties of the energy saving projects when NFEC transfers to them at the end of the energy service contracts.
 
 The current principal development focus of NFEC is to improve the products, such as large intelligent flow control facility and to provide our Company with more advanced technology to supply high grade energy efficient and safety reliant products for high end markets.
 
Our corporate goal is to maintain our established position as a leading provider of energy efficiency flow control systems, a cutting edge innovator with clean energy and energy efficiency technologies, and a total energy efficiency solution and service provider dedicated to maximum returns to our investors, partners, clients and environment.
 
Products and Services
 
At present, our products and services include:
 
1. Provide the large-diameter smart flow control device for China’s electric power generation, water supply, heating supply and gas supply industries.
 
2. Provide the equipment related to desulfurization, denitration and dust removal for China’s electric power generation, metallurgy, petrochemical, steel, cement and heating supply industries.
 
3. Provide consulting services, such as energy efficiency optimization design, energy consuming equipment retrofit and engineering, equipment maintenance and services, energy management based on Energy Performance Contracts for China’s industrial enterprises.
 
Some landmark contracts the Company has completed include:
 

· | In 2012, the Company received contracts from Beijing South to North Water Diversion Operation and Management Center, Shanxi Kegong Longsheng Technology Ltd, Huaihu Coal Ltd, Chongqing Water-Turbine Ltd, Shenergy Company Limited, Shanghai Qingcaosha City-Environment Project (South Branch Project), Luanhe Power Station of China Guodian Corporation ,Qiangui Power Ltd , Guizhou Province, Guihang Nenghuan Refrigeration Engineering Ltd, Shanghai City , Electric Power Construction Corporation (Zambia’s project) , Shandong Province; Lu Electric International Trading corporation, and Shandong Province ( Philippines project).
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


5
-

In 2013, the Company received contracts from Zheneng Zhenhai Gas Thermal Power Co. Ltd; Chongqing Water Turbine Factory Ltd; Chongqing Wanliu Power Co., Ltd; Dalian Petrochemical Company of SenoPech; China National Electric Power Engineering Co. Ltd ; Xinyu Iron and Steel Ltd; Shandong Electric Power Corporation; Jiajie Gas-fired Cogeneration Branch of Shanxi New Energy Industry Group; and the Amedyan Power Co Ltd of the State Grid Company.
 
In 2014, the Company received contracts from LXB Water Supply Co., Ltd. Shandong Luneng Huaneng Power International Trade Company of Taiyuan Dongshan Gas Turbine Thermal Power Co., Ltd., Beijing Sea of Inner Mongolia Coal Gangue Power Co., Ltd. and other companies. , At the same time, the Company has also completed the installation of desulfurization, denitration and dust removal systems at the 660T/h boiler room of the Chinese Aviation Company.
In 2015, the Company received contracts from Gansu Coal Group Co. Ltd, Nanning Tiefa Valve Co., Ltd, Weinan Dongnan Bureau , Shanxi Ruiguang power Co., Ltd and Harbin Binhe Technology Co., Ltd,,Chifeng Jianxi Shangrao water diversion project, Inner Mongolia Caisen hydropower station, Chifeng Xincheng thermal power co., Ltd , Sinkiangr conservancy hub project and Italian Tecnedil International SRL, etc
 
In 2016, the Company received contracts from the 2*660MW project of a subsidiary of State Grid, Shanxin, a 2*660MW low calorific coal power generation project and the Hubei Huanggang cogeneration project, Jiangsu Guohua Chenjia Gang power co., Ltd, Shandong electric power construction co., Ltd , 2*350 MW cogeneration project of Shandong Junan Liyuan Thermal Power Co.,Ltd., 2*1000 MW circulating water system project of Guangdong Datang International Leizhou Power Plant , 2*1000 MW of coal-fired power generating project of Shanxin Shentou Power Co.Ltd, 2*660 MW generator project of North China Power Engineering (Beijing) Co.,Ltd and Liaoning Dahufang reservoir water diversion project etc.
 
In 2017, the Company received contracts from JATIGATE hydroelectric station, Indonesia, Sinkiang Production and Construction Group and Siehuan Dongfa Electric Co.Ltd, China Nuclear Qiqihar environmental protection technology Co. Ltd., for the first phase of an oxidation pond deep processing project; Chongqing water turbine Co., Ltd., for the huangshan dragon hydropower station renovation project in Vietnam; and Chongqing new century electrical Co. Ltd., for the NHESANJEN hydropower station renovation project in Nepal, Zhejiang Zhenhai power plant coal-fired units move renovation project, Wanhua chemical (Ningbo) electric co., Ltd. Valve supply water system project, Chongqing New Century electrical co., Ltd power projects in Pakistan , China Nuclear Qiqihar environmental protection technology Co. Ltd., for the first phase of an oxidation pond deep processing project, Chongqing water turbine Co., Ltd., for the huangshan dragon hydropower station renovation project in Vietnam, Chongqing new century electrical Co. Ltd., for the NHESANJEN hydropower station renovation project in Nepal etc.
 
Production and Sales of Energy Saving Flow Control Equipment
 
The Company’s current principal business is the production and sales of energy-saving flow control equipment, and intelligent flow control equipment. This business accounts for the majority of the Company’s revenues.

6
-

 

Pipeline transport is one of the basic modes of transportation together with rail transport, road transport, air transport and water transport. Water, gas, oil, and heat rely on various kinds of pipelines and pipe networks to be transported to end users. In the case of water pipelines, such systems are also used for public health and safety, and waste and flood control.
 
The key to the efficiency and energy conservation of the pipeline transportation process is the valve and the flow control equipment. Having unique technology in this field, the Company has obtained four patents and holds fourteen utilization model patents in China for flow control devices, especially in the area of the bidirectional seal zero revelation installation system with its special characteristics. Using valves of this type can result in reduced energy consumption by 20% for customers compared to traditional valves. The reduced energy consumption thereby increases the efficiency of the pipeline system. It is widely used in the fields of electric power, hydro power, petroleum, and natural gas. The Company’s super intelligent flow-control device was awarded “Number One Energy Saving Valve of China” by the Chinese Energy Conservation Association. Our products are exported to the United States, Russia, Turkey, Italy, Bulgaria, South Korea, Vietnam, India, Thailand, South Africa, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
 
After the new manufacturing facility was completed, the new large numerical control machine tool improved the manufactured quality of the Company’s products. The “M type high torque flow control device” providing for LXB project, the maximum output torque is 1.7 million N.m , 90 degrees of rotation and total ratio is 175:1. It not only improves the quality of product , but also reduces the cost such that has reached international advanced level.
 
Another main business is the energy saving technology engineering and service, the Company will continue to develop comprehensive energy conservation and energy reduction equipment and services, and to pursue research development and improved manufacturing of flow control and clean energy related equipment.
 
Patents and Technology
 
Nengfa Energy currently has been issued four invention patents and has applied for fourteen utility model patents in the PRC.
 
In addition to the patent protection that we seek, we also rely on the confidentiality of our operations, proprietary know-how and business secrets. Although we do not have formal agreements with our employees, we do consider our employees’ work to be proprietary and owned by the Company. Where necessary, we will take steps to protect our intellectual property interests under the laws of the PRC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our rights if they are improperly taken by our employees or adopted by our competitors outside of sanctioned use and royalty agreements with the Company.
 
Certain of our service offerings will not be patentable or otherwise be capable of being registered as intellectual property. Therefore, the Company will rely solely on such services being proprietary. As such the Company will have to rely on the services being more advanced or better than its competitors’ offerings or rely on trade secret laws and protections. Such protections in the PRC are considered rather weak and are difficult if not impossible to enforce. Consequently, it may be possible for our competitors to obtain our information and to copy, adopt or adapt our methods, services and technical aspects to their own business with no assurance that we will be able to prevent them from using the intellectual property in competition with us.
 

7
-

 

The Company does not have any significant trademarks in use at this time. As our business develops, we will consider the advantage of developing specific trademarks for our products and services and have registered those marks with the PRC government authorities for trademark protection.
 
Markets and Customers
 
The transport of water and fluid energy, such as oil, gas, steam and hot water depends on pipelines. The intelligent flow control device supplied by NF Energy is an important part in the fluid energy transportation systems. According to “one belt and road initiative” , China plans to invest 4 trillion yuan in the next 5 to 10 years into water conservancy projects, the average annual investment is 400 billion yuan, the investment relating to valves is approximately 40 billion yuan per year. Since it was founded in 2006, the Company has supplied its products to many projects of this national water works, including the middle and northern Guangxi Xijiang River Water Diversion Project, Shenzhen Water Supply Project, Shanghai Water Diversion Project, and the 7 urban water supply projects in Liaoning Province, three curved water diversion projects in Dandong, and other major domestic water diversion projects. We have the best industry performance in water supply projects so as to be awarded as “ king of butterfly valve” in water diversion industry. At the same time, we also provide flow control devices and equipment for supercritical thermal power plants and ultra-supercritical coal-fired power plants as well as domestic hydro power generation market which are dominated by China's state-owned five big power groups. More than 80% of the Company’s annual revenues come from these markets and customers.
 
In connection with its work on the water diversion project and some of the power plant projects, the Company has a preferred provider agreement with Nengfa Weiye Tieling Valve Joint Stock Co., Ltd. (“Tieling Valve”) under which Nengfa Energy is the preferred provider of the valves and other related flow control equipment that Tieling Valve requires in its own work on the water diversion project. The agreement is in the manner of a right of first refusal whereby Tieling Valve is obliged to offer supply opportunities to Nengfa Energy within its scope of product offerings and expertise, but Tieling Valve is not prohibited from developing other supply arrangements. Tieling Valve and Nengfa Energy have agreed to cooperate to develop and market their respective technologies, equipment, products and services for their respective and mutual benefit, and will work together to examine and expand their respective businesses. Under the agreement, each party retains full right to their respective intellectual property. The agreement terminates in 2021, but by its terms will automatically extend for additional one year terms unless notice of termination is given by one party to the other at least six months prior to the then termination date.
 
The Company will focus its marketing to the wind power generation and the boiler/furnace industry through participation in and addressing government organizations and industry associations related to energy conservation and emission reduction. Marketing will also focus on equipment suppliers and end-users such as the larger and medium sized high energy consumption enterprises that provide or use the kinds of products and services that the Company currently offers or plans to offer. The focus will not only be to sell the products and services, but also to learn of the customer’s needs so that the Company can develop and adapt its products and services to the needs of its customer base. Another important aspect of the marketing strategy will be to participate directly in the consulting and reconstruction services of energy conservation projects organized by government agencies. Nevertheless, the Company plans to continue to participate in the bidding process for government projects, in an effort to enhance its market position.
 

8
-

 

The Company’s marketing and sales strategy also relies on the use of exclusive agents throughout China who act as marketing agents and after sale service providers. The Company currently has 23 exclusive distributing agents national wide. At certain times each year, the Company provides and organizes training sessions for these agents and their personnel. These sessions provide the Company with a valuable opportunity to gather feedback and to foster an exchange of technical ideas. These agents have agreements with the Company to sell NF flow control equipment and systems. The Company evaluates the performance of these exclusive agents annually, based on how well they achieve the annual sales target established by the Company. The Company typically will terminate its agreement with those agents that miss the sales targets for two consecutive years without good reasons.
 
Raw Materials
 
The major raw materials for our production are stainless steel, steel and copper, rubber parts. We source our materials locally in China. Nengfa Energy is located in Liaoning Province which is China’s largest production base for iron and steel. We have stable long term supply arrangements for our principal raw material suppliers based on long standing business relationships. Since we are located close to the supplies of many of our essential raw materials, we enjoy price and transportation cost advantages over our competitors and competing users. Through our advanced technology and our management of raw materials, we are able to manage and improve our consumption rates of the raw materials we use in production, which results in lower operating expense and extension of our inventories.
Regulatory Compliance
 
The Company’s products are subject to regulatory standards and enforcement codes which typically require that these products meet stringent performance criteria. Standards are established by industry testing and certification organizations such as the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (A.S.M.E.), the Canadian Standards Association (C.S.A.), the Japanese Standards Association (J.S.A.), the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (I.A.P.M.O.), Factory Mutual (F.M.), and Underwriters Laboratory (U.L.). These standards are incorporated into state and municipal plumbing and heating, building and fire protection codes in China.
 
We maintain stringent quality control and testing procedures at our manufacturing facility in order to manufacture products in compliance with code requirements. Our production management is certified to conform to the ISO 9001 standards by the Det Norske Veritas Management System.
 
Competition
 
The Company holds a leading position in the super diameter energy efficient flow control system market in China. The Company has an extensive competitive advantage over Chinese domestic manufactures in this field. Other manufactures that are focusing on the development of different and smaller valve products may enter this field. Our major potential competitor in this field is China Valve Technology.
 
In the other areas of the Company’s business, there are many different competitors with differing focuses and strengths. To some extent, boilers and furnaces are specialized to particular industries and output requirements. This specialization engenders specialization in the design, manufacture and installation of new equipment and retrofit solutions. Therefore, there are many engineering and manufacturing companies that focus on certain types of boilers and furnaces resulting in a relatively fragmented market for these services. The same is true for the retrofit and reconstruction of other industrial systems for improved energy efficiency, as well as for the localized projects for energy conservation and biomass utilization, and similar projects. Therefore, the competition that the Company faces tends to be localized companies with no dominant players at this time.
 

9
-

 

The utilization of gasified biomass energy is matured in China. Although the technology is widely used in China, it is still at a stage of individual household build gas digesters, rather with a large scale piped gas supply system. The county-city level gas supply project the Company concentrates on will generate a local area monopoly business operation. There is no direct competition in short term.
 
We plan to compete based on our ability to address a wide spectrum of solutions in our various market areas. We believe our competitive advantages result from our patented technologies, our strategic relationships with engineering companies, our marketing and our business relationships. We plan to continue to expand these aspects of our business to further grow our core businesses and provide solutions for the energy savings and green energy projects. We intend to participate actively in the government sponsored projects and government contracting.
 
Research and Development
 
The research and development expenses are to develop new products or new production technologies. The research and development expenses include the materials and labor costs, application fees for patents and significant improvements to existing products. We incurred $73,238 and $96,572 of research and development expenses in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, there were 220 employees including 31 technical staff working in our subsidiaries located in China. We believe we have a good relationship with our employees.
Others
 
Our internet website address is http://www.nfenergy.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, proxy statement and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website.

10
--

