Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1.  Business
Introduction
 
This annual report should be read together and in connection with the other reports that have been filed by us with the SEC for a comprehensive description of our financial condition and operating results.  In the interest of disclosure, we have included information in this annual report certain material events and developments that have taken place through the date of filing of this annual report with the SEC.
 
In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, INVO Bioscience, Inc. (INVO Bioscience, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this document as “we”, “us”, “INVO Bioscience”, “INVO,” or the “Company”), incorporates by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Securities and Exchange Commission allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner.  Please refer to all such information when reading this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  All information is as of December 31, 2017 unless otherwise indicated.  For a description of the risk factors affecting or applicable to our business, see “Risk Factors,” below.
 
The Company
 
INVO Bioscience’s mission is to increase access to care and expand fertility treatment and patient care across the globe. We have developed the INVOcell device and procedure, the first Intravaginal Culture (IVC) system granted FDA clearance in the United States, providing millions of infertile couples across the country access to this new infertility treatment. This novel device and procedure provides a more natural, safe, effective and economical fertility treatment compared to current infertility treatments, including in-vitro fertilization (“IVF”) and intrauterine insemination (“IUI”). The patented INVOcell device is used for the incubation of eggs and sperm during fertilization and early embryo development. Unlike conventional infertility treatments such as IVF where the eggs and sperm develop into embryos in a laboratory incubator, the INVOcell utilizes the women’s vagina as an incubator to support a more natural fertilization and embryo development environment. This novel device promotes in vivo conception and early embryo development.
 
In extensive clinical studies, the INVO Procedure has proven to have equivalent pregnancy success rates as the traditional assisted reproductive technique IVF. Additionally, the psychological benefits of the potential mother’s participation in fertilization and early embryo development by vaginal incubation are incomparable to traditional IVF treatment. This new technique offers to patients a more natural and personalized way to achieve pregnancy and is simple enough to be performed in an appropriately trained physician’s office or in a satellite facility of an IVF center.
 
For many couples struggling with infertility, access to treatment is often not available. Financial challenges, limited availability of specialized medical care, religious, social and cultural roadblocks can prevent these hopeful couples from realizing their dream to have a baby. There are many benefits to the INVO Solution, including:
 
• Reduces the risk of errors of wrong embryo transfers since the embryos are never separated from the woman.
 • Promotes greater involvement by couples in the treatment and conception.
 • Creates a more natural and environmentally stable incubation than traditional IVF incubation in a laboratory.
 • Requires fewer office visits for the couples.
 • Reduces the worry of leaving embryos in an incubator where mix-ups have been known to occur.
 
Since November 2, 2015 when INVO Bioscience was notified by the United States Food & Drug Administration (“FDA”) that the INVOcell and INVO procedure were cleared for use, the company has begun to market and sell the INVOcell in several locations across the U.S. and plans on continuing to penetrate the market through 2018 and beyond. The Company currently has 60 appropriately trained clinics or satellite facilities of IVF centers in the U.S. where patients can receive guidance and treatment for the INVO procedure for infertility.
 
In May 2008, we received notice that the INVOcell product meets all the essential requirements of the relevant European Directive(s), and received CE Marking.  The CE marking (also known as CE mark) is a mandatory conformity mark on many products placed on the single market in the European Economic Area (EEA).  The CE marking (an acronym for the French “Conformite Europeenne”) certifies that a product has met EU health, safety and environmental requirements, which ensure consumer safety.  We are currently awaiting the approval of our CE Mark re-certification. With our anticipated re-certification of our CE Mark in the near future, we  expect to obtain regulatory authority to distribute product in the European Economic Area, provided we comply with local registration requirements as discussed herein (i.e., the European Union, Australia, New Zealand, Africa and most parts of the Middle East and South America).  
 

4
 
 Table of Contents

As with most start-up situations, one of the biggest challenges that INVO Bioscience is facing is raising the appropriate capital to implement its business plan while opening markets across the globe.
 
INVO Bioscience was formed on January 05, 2007 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts under the name “Bio X Cell, Inc.” to acquire the assets of Medelle Corporation (“Medelle”).  Dr. Claude Ranoux purchased all of the assets of Medelle, and then he contributed those assets, including four patents relating to the INVOcell technology, to Bio X Cell, Inc. upon its formation in January 2007.
 
On December 5, 2008, Bio X Cell, Inc., doing business as INVO Bioscience, and each of the shareholders of INVO Bioscience entered into a share exchange agreement and consummated a share exchange with Emy’s Salsa AJI Distribution Company, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Emy’s”). Upon the closing of the share exchange on December 5, 2008, the INVO Bioscience shareholders transferred all of their shares of Common Stock in INVO Bioscience to Emy’s.   In connection with the share exchange, Emy’s changed its name to “INVO Bioscience, Inc.” and Bio X Cell, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Emy’s (re-named INVO Bioscience, Inc.).  After the closing, the Company had 53,245,000 shares of Common Stock outstanding.  
 
This discussion is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed discussion of our operations in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section below.
 
The INVOcell Technology
 
Our product, the INVOcell medical device, is designed to treat infertility at a lower cost than other treatments available in today’s marketplace, including IVF.  The INVOcell technology is a fertility treatment where mild ovarian stimulation is used.  Using a mild stimulation protocol, 1-7 follicles are retrieved from a woman in a physician’s office with the patient under light sedation with or without local anesthesia.  The follicle retrieval is performed using a vaginal probe under ultrasound guidance.  Eggs are identified immediately after retrieval in the follicular fluid.  During the INVO procedure, fertilization and embryo development occurs inside the woman’s vaginal cavity in a disposable single use device -- the INVOcell -- that holds the eggs, sperm and culture medium, a nutrient liquid.
 
Sperm collection and preparation generally occur before egg retrieval.  Culture medium (~1ml) is placed in the inner vessel of the INVOcell.  Eggs and a low concentration of motile sperm are placed into the medium and the inner vessel is closed and secured in the protective outer vessel.  The INVOcell is placed in the patient’s vaginal cavity for an incubation period of 3 days in the United States and 5 days in other countries.  A retention system can be used to maintain the INVOcell system in the vagina during the incubation period.  The retention system consists of a diaphragm with holes in the membrane to allow natural elimination of vaginal secretions.  The INVOcell is designed so that no vaginal fluids penetrate the outer vessel thus ensuring that the inner vessel is not contaminated while allowing the necessary CO2 for fertilization to pass through.  The eggs, sperm and media are inserted into the INVOcell and then the INVOcell is placed in the vaginal cavity, this process takes approximately 60 minutes. 
 
After 3 days in the U.S., the patient returns to the physician’s office where the retention system and the INVOcell are removed.  The protective outer vessel is discarded and the inner vessel is placed in INVO Bioscience’s Microscope Holding Block in a vertical position for 10 minutes.  Embryos are collected in the micro chamber located at the bottom of the inner vessel.  The embryos can be directly viewed in the micro chamber in the Holding Block by using a microscope.  Embryos can be loaded directly from the device in a transfer catheter from the INVOcell device.  A trained clinician can readily identify the best embryos for transfer.  The embryos to be transferred are aspirated into a standard transfer catheter for transfer into the patient’s uterus.  This second visit should take approximately 30 minutes.  All INVO related medical procedures can be performed in a physician’s office with the addition of few pieces of equipment thereby avoiding the requirements of an IVF facility and the associated costs to build and maintain such a facility.
 
Operations Strategy and Suppliers
 
INVO Bioscience operates by outsourcing many key operational functions in the development and manufacturing of the INVOcell device to keep fixed costs to a minimum.  Our most critical management and leadership functions are carried out by our core team.  We have contracted out manufacturing, packaging/labeling and sterilization of the device to a certified manufacturer; to a medical manufacturing company to assemble packages and label the product; and to a sterilization specialist to perform the gamma sterilization process.  Our operations model expedites production and eliminates the need for in-house capital equipment expenditures.
 

5
 
 Table of Contents

To date, we have achieved a series of important steps in the development and manufacturing of the INVOcell, including:
 

· | Manufacturing: Our parts and manufacturing processes have been validated. Our facilities and Quality Management Systems (QMS) have been inspected twice by the FDA and have received very good reports. Manufacturing of inventory is ongoing. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 1,600 INVOcell devices ready for sale, and an additional approximately 4,300 devices molded and ready for assembly, sterilization and packaging. Our suppliers provide us with virtually an unlimited capability, with all manufacturing done in New England. 
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
· | All raw materials utilized for the INVOcell are medical grade and commonly used in medical devices (i.e.; medical grade silicone, medical grade plastic). Our principal mold supplier is a well-established company in the molding industry and is ISO 9001 Certified. Our contract manufacturer for the INVOcell is ISO 13485 Certified and FDA inspected. 
· | CE Mark: INVO Bioscience is in the process of re-certifying the CE Mark. The CE Mark permits the sale of devices in Europe, Australia and other countries that recognize the CE Mark, subject to local registration requirements. 
· | Clinical Trials: Safety and efficacy of the INVOcell device has been demonstrated and cleared for marketing and use by the U.S. FDA. INVO Bioscience has received ISO 13485, MDD/CMDCAS registration which is effective through 2018. 
· | Support of Practitioners: Clinicians and laboratory directors have used the INVO method and the feedback has been positive; practitioners appreciate the fact that it is a patient-friendly procedure, easy to perform and effective. 
· | Marketing Trials/Studies: A number of fertility clinics completed clinical studies in Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Brazil, South America, showing efficacy rates in the 33%-43% range. A U.S. clinical study utilizing the INVOcell and procedure was completed in 2014 and yielded a clinical pregnancy rate of 60% and a live birth rate of 55%. A practice currently offering the INVO Procedure is experiencing a 65% pregnancy rate. Current US physicians that are treating patients with the INVO procedure are reporting pregnancy result minimally equivalent to IVF. 

Current Market Opportunity
 
According to the European Society for Human Reproduction (“ESHRE”) in 2018, Assisted Reproductive Technologies (“ART”) Fact Sheet, there were more than 150 million infertile couples in the world.  While there have been large increases in the use of IVF, only 1.5 million ART cycles are now performed globally each year, producing around 350,000 babies.  This amounts to the treatment of approximately 3% of the infertile couples worldwide being treated and only1% having a child though IVF.  A survey by “Resolve: The National Infertility Association,” indicates the two main reasons couples do not use IVF is cost and geographical availability.  We can provide a locally available treatment option that can be performed in a facility without much of the expensive equipment required for IVF, and at less than half of the cost of IVF that will help millions of infertile couples throughout the world where IVF is not currently available or is too costly.
 
IVF is an effective treatment option for many infertile couples.  Our patented and proven INVO technology is a unique, low cost fertility treatment that is much simpler to perform than IVF.  The procedure can be provided without an IVF center and therefore can be available in many more locations than IVF.  We believe we are well positioned to capture a significant share of this unmet market.  With our INVOcell device and technique, fertilization and early embryo development happens within the vaginal cavity rather than an incubator.  Oocytes and sperm are fertilized and developed into embryos within the INVO device while contained by the woman’s vaginal cavity.
 
According to ESHRE (2014), approximately 1% of infertile couples have a child by an infertility treatment, including IVF, intra uterine insemination (“IUI”) and other fertility treatments, this represents a $6.6 billion worldwide market annually.  This leaves most of the infertile couples untreated with an estimated unmet market opportunity in the billions, INVO Bioscience believes a portion of this market will be met by the INVOcell device.  Much of the unmet market is located in developing countries where many patients cannot afford, and have limited access to, IVF.  We believe that developing countries offer a large and ready market for the INVO Procedure.
 
In the United States infertility according to the American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) (2017) affects an estimated 10%-15% of the couples of child bearing age. Based on preliminary 2015 data from CDC’s National ART Surveillance System, 231,936 IVF cycles were performed at 464 IVF centers with 186,157 cycles going through transferring the embryo and 45,779 cycles being frozen for future use. These transferred cycles resulted in 60,778 live births and 72,913 babies born yielding an approximate 33% overall pregnancy rate. Although the use of IVF is still relatively rare as compared to demand its use has doubled over the past decade. Today approximately 1.6% of the infants born in the United States every year are conceived through IVF.
 
In November 2015 we received notice that the INVOcell device met all of the requirements for U.S. FDA clearance. The FDA clearance has allowed the company to begin launching the INVOcell product and procedure in the United States. We anticipate that this will be our primary focus over the coming years.
 

6
 
 Table of Contents

As indicated above, in May 2008 we received notice that the INVOcell device met all of the essential requirements of the relevant European Directive, and received CE marking.   The CE marking certifies that a product has met European health, safety and environmental requirements, which ensure consumer safety.  Manufacturers in Europe and abroad must meet CE marking requirements where applicable in order to market their products in Europe.  Since it has been over nine years since we first received the CE marking, we are currently in the re-certification process with the appropriate regulatory bodies and expect to have this completed in the near future.  With CE marking, we will have the necessary regulatory authority to distribute our INVOcell device in the European Economic Area, subject to local registration regulations.  
 
Currently, we are continuing to establish agreements with distributors and train physicians outside of the U.S. including Asia, South America, Central America, Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa.  The international market will be secondary to the U.S. market for the Company since we believe the revenues from these secondary markets will not be as profitable as the U.S. market. Upon receiving additional funding, as to which there is no guaranty, the company’s ability to expand in the international market will be increased.
 
Competition
 
The infertility industry is highly competitive and characterized by technological improvements.  New assisted reproductive technology (“ART”) services, devices and techniques may be developed that may render the INVOcell obsolete.  Competition in the areas of infertility and ART services is largely based on pregnancy rates and other patient outcomes.  Accordingly, the ability of our business to compete is largely dependent on our ability to achieve adequate pregnancy rates and patient satisfaction levels.  The INVO procedure will offer an alternative treatment to couples that currently do not have access to treatments because of cost or location.  Infertility clinics can expand their businesses by offering INVO in satellite centers that can be opened at a substantially lower cost than an IVF center.  We are not aware of any direct competitors to INVO Bioscience or the INVO process using the INVOcell device.  However, there are existing infertility treatment regimes that the INVOcell will compete with when an infertile couple, in conjunction with their physician, is choosing the treatment method for their infertility.  We believe that the menu of currently available clinical infertility treatment methods generally is limited to IUI and IVF.
Competing Treatments
 
Intra Uterine Insemination (IUI):   In IUI treatments, ovarian stimulation protocols with induction of ovulation are frequently used to recruit several follicles and improve clinical pregnancy rates.  When monitoring of ovulation indicates that the female patient is ready to ovulate, the male patient will produce a sperm sample in the fertility doctor’s office.  The sperm is then prepared and delivered to the uterus through a catheter.  Currently IUI can only treat approximately 40% of the causes of infertility.  For example, IUI does not address infertility causes such as tubal disease and other conditions that are treatable by IVF and the INVOcell device and process.  In addition, IUI does not produce the diagnostic information such as fertilization that an IVF or INVO cycle produces.  Approximately 600,000 IUI cycles are performed annually by a subset of about 5,000 doctors in the U.S. as well as by IVF providers.  In Europe, at least 550,000 IUI cycles are performed annually.  The cost of a single IUI treatment can range from $800 to $3,000 per cycle in the U.S. and $500 to $2,000 in Europe.  The intra-country differences in cost primarily depend on the stimulation protocol and the ovulation monitoring used by the physician.
In Vitro Fertilization (IVF):  IVF addresses tubal factor, ovulatory dysfunction, diminished ovarian reserve, endometriosis, uterine factor, male factor, unexplained infertility and other causes.  IVF bypasses the function of the fallopian tube by achieving fertilization within a laboratory environment.  Ovarian hyper-stimulation is common with IVF treatments to recruit numerous follicles to purportedly increase the chances for success.  Follicles are retrieved trans-vaginally using a vaginal probe and ultrasound guidance.  General anesthesia is frequently used due to the number of follicles retrieved and the resulting discomfort experienced by the patient.  The eggs are identified in the follicular fluid and combined with sperm and culture medium in culture dishes, which are placed in an incubator with a temperature and gas environment designed to mimic the condition of the fallopian tubes.  Once the embryos develop, typically over a 3-5 day period, they are transferred to the uterine cavity.  The transfer of several embryos allows an average success rate for IVF of 37%, but it is also responsible for a high multiple birth rate of approximately 33% of IVF pregnancies.  Multiple births bring risks to mother and babies and significant expenses for third party payers.  In addition, due to the high number of embryos produced in IVF, cryo-preservation of excess embryos occurs in more than 30% of the cycles.  According to the U.S. Center for Disease Control (“CDC”), in the U.S. there are approximately 1,000 reproductive endocrinologists who collectively perform more than 186,000 embryo transfer IVF cycles and an additional 46,000 cycles are performed and frozen per year at 497 specialized facilities.  According to European Society of Human Reproduction & Embryology (“ESHRE”), in Europe nearly 300,000 IVF cycles are reportedly performed at more than 1,000 facilities.
 
The cost to the patient for a single IVF cycle (including drugs) is in the $11,000 - $16,000 range in the U.S. and can go as high as $20,000 depending on the IVF center.  The cost of drugs for an IVF cycle ranges from $2,500 to $4,000.  The average cost per live birth using IVF can exceed $50,000 since the successful patient may require more than one cycle depending on the age of the patient.  Many patients who would be good candidates for IVF are unable to access it because of the high cost and lack of insurance reimbursement.  Additional obstacles to IVF often include significant distances to IVF clinics; travel costs; and time off from work.  In addition, some couples experience concerns regarding IVF such as the possibility of laboratory errors resulting in receiving another person’s embryo.
 

7
 
 Table of Contents

Competitors
 
We operate in a highly competitive industry, which is subject to competitive pricing and rapid technological change. The first IVF baby, Louise Brown was born in 1977, making the IVF treatment 40 years old.  Our INVOcell device is the first new treatment option for patients in 40 years. The market for fertility treatment and devices are highly competitive in terms of pricing, functionality and service quality, the timing of development and introduction of new products and services and terms of financing.  We face competition from all ART practitioners and device manufacturers.  Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, allowing them to offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions.  Our competitors may have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we have.  We may also encounter increased competition from new market entrants or alternative ART technologies.  Our ability to compete in this market successfully will require us to adapt to economic or regulatory changes, to introduce new products to the market and to enhance the functionality while reducing the cost of new and existing products.
 
Our principal ART medical-device competitor is Anecova, a Swiss life sciences company with an intrauterine device under development for infertility treatment.  This device is a very small silicone tube with 360 micro perforations.  Oocytes are fertilized outside the device and then placed in the tube, which is placed inside the woman’s uterus for early embryo development.  After 1-5 days, the device is removed and the best embryo(s) are transferred back into the woman’s uterus.  We believe that the device is much more difficult to use than the INVOcell due to its size and the requirement to place the device in the uterus, a sterile environment.  We expect that the precision manufacturing of the Anecova device will drive its cost close to $1,500, which is higher than our price.  The Anecova device would only be available in hospitals and IVF Centers at a significantly higher cost than the INVOcell.  Currently the Anecova device has not begun clinical studies in the United States that will be required for FDA approval, therefore the device will not be available for some time in the United States and many other areas of the world.
 
Competitive Advantages
 
We believe that the INVOcell has the following competitive advantages:
 
Lower cost than IVF with similar efficacy:  The INVOcell is substantially less expensive than IVF due to a lower cost of supplies, labor, capital equipment and overhead.  We estimate that an IVF center requires at least $500,000 of laboratory capital equipment as well as highly trained personnel.  In contrast, the cost of laboratory capital equipment to set-up an INVOcell procedure is approximately $60,000 and does not require highly trained embryologists that are required for traditional IVF.  According to the CDC, the United States success rate for IVF varies dramatically from 13% to 65% with an average of 42.6% pregnancy rate in women under age 35, a 36.4% pregnancy rate in woman age 35-37 with rates dropping as the women become older.
 
In 2015, according to a draft report prepared by the U.S. Center for Disease Control (“CDC”), there were 231,936 ART cycles. Out of these cycles 45,779 were performed for freezing of embryos for the future and 186,157 cycles were performed through embryo transfer. These cycles resulted in 60,778 live birth deliveries and 72,913 live born babies with a clinical pregnancy rate of 33%.  (CDC 2015 ART Report).  The INVO procedure will be offered at approximately $6,500 per cycle with a pregnancy rate comparable to traditional IVF.  According to Resolve, National Fertility Association, IUI cycles costs $275- $2,457 per cycle (variability due to drug costs and diagnostics inclusion on some cycles) and the cost range of IVF is $9,000-11,000 per cycle plus drug costs. Drug cost range from $3,000-$5,000 per cycle brining the cost range of IVF to $12,000 - $16,000 per cycle.  The INVO procedure is being offered at $6,500 per cycle inclusive of medications thereby making it much more affordable than traditional IVF.
 
Similar cost than IUI with greater efficacy: It is estimated by Resolve that in the U.S. currently IUI averages $1,500 per cycle with approximately <10% pregnancy rate while IVF averages $11000 - $16,000 range per cycle with an average of 37% pregnancy rate.  With INVO, we believe that the Ob/Gyn and reproductive endocrinologists will benefit by providing a superior product than IUI with good financial margins, efficacy rates more than triple IUI while treating the full range of infertility indications.  In Europe, according to ESHRE the average cost per pregnancy using IUI is $12,000.  According to ESHRE the average cost per pregnancy for IVF is $21,354 while for INVO it is only $13,888: a savings of more than $7,000 per pregnancy.  Using INVO could reduce annual infertility costs in Europe by more than $650 million.
 
Greater geographic availability:   According to 2014 CDC Report, there are approximately 497 IVF centers in the U.S.  In addition, by having INVO geographically available in Ob/Gyn offices, couples will avoid the travel costs and absence from work associated with long-distance IVF treatments.  The medical staff at these centers could easily learn the INVO technique and offer it as a lower cost treatment option for their patients through satellite centers.  According to the American College of Gynecologists (ACOG) there are also approximately 5,000 Ob/Gyn physicians in the U.S. who offer infertility services such as the IUI treatment but lack the facilities to offer an IVF treatment.  Since INVO does not require a specialized lab facility, large costly equipment or highly specialized staff, the INVO treatment may be offered in a doctors’ office with the addition of minor capital equipment potentially expanding business for these physicians.  Therefore, in the U.S. alone, INVO could be 10 times more available than conventional IVF.  Ob/Gyn offices worldwide could offer INVO as an alternative or follow up treatment to IUI and generate a significant new revenue stream.
 
Greater patient involvement: With INVO, the patient uses her own body as the incubation environment.  This creates a greater sense of involvement, comfort and participation for patients who know that the fertilization is happening within their own bodies.  In some cases, this may free a couple from ethical or religious concerns, or fears of laboratory mix-ups that could result in a patient receiving another couple’s embryo(s).
 
8
 
 Table of Contents

SALES AND MARKETING
 
Customers
 
Currently our customer are the doctors who can offer the INVO Procedure to their patients. We have trained doctors from 17 states and our goal is to have at least one location in every state if not many locations to make access to our treatment easily accessible. We typically train both a reproductive endocrinologist and an embryologist from the practice.  We are grateful to these pioneers who have made the choice to explore our novel device.  They are attempting to expand the market and provide a reproductive service to a broader range of patients who typically would have just dejectedly left the office and gone home.  These doctors are going through medical and business learning curves as they introduce the INVOcell device and procedure to others within their offices and to prospective patients. They are trying to determine where INVO fits into their practice.  They do not want to impact the strong business models they have in place today but at the same time see the need for INVO in the marketplace.
 
Every center offering the INVO procedure today is in a different place, some have figured out the balance and have a steady mix of procedures. While others are having difficulty recruiting patients or working through politics and existing beliefs to get the INVO offering off the ground.  A couple have already started planning where they can open new offices to help meet the demand in their area by using the INVOcell.  Another trend we see developing is that once there is one practice offering the INVO Procedure other physicians within the general area have reached out to us to be trained. Then there are other places like New England, where we are located where current practices have not shown an interest. We have plans to address those areas and move to having full access to care.
 
Since receiving FDA clearance we have shipped over 1,000 INVOcells to doctors in the US, not all revenue producing as with anything, new physicians and embryologists have to practice after training to get better at the slight technique differences of what they have been doing for 10, 20 or 30 years. We have shipped an additional 500 INVOcells across the rest of the word as others are doing the same as the US doctors in figuring it all out.
 
As we have stated once getting comfortable with the process, the practitioners are seeing very strong and healthy embryos being developed within the INVOcell and have equal or better clinical pregnancy and live birth results.  We believe there have been over 500 pregnancies as the result of INVO during this time producing hundreds of babies.  Unfortunately, the way the system is today we lose track as the patients leave the reproductive endocrinologist’s care and go back to the Gynecologist and Obstetricians for delivery and birth.
 
Product Pricing
 
We anticipate employing the following pricing system for the INVOcell Intravaginal Culture System technology.  These prices were determined after discussions with our advisory board of physicians and potential strategic partners, and reflect the innovative features of the device, the savings in physician’s laboratory fixed costs and the billings the physician will receive from patients to perform INVO.  Our goal is to have the INVO procedure offered to infertile couples as a lower cost alternative with comparable success rates to IVF.
INVOcell Culture Device:    We expect to sell the INVOcell device and its retention system for between $400 - $500 per unit in developed nations and $100 in underdeveloped countries.   IVF centers or Ob/Gyn groups purchasing a large number of devices and promoting the INVO process may receive discounted prices and certain free advertising of their facility on our website.  It is expected that the INVOcell will sell for $500 in the U.S., which would grant a user a single-use license under our patents.  In Central and South America, the price of the device is expected to be reduced to between $250 and $400 to reflect a generally lower cost of infertility procedures in most of these countries and to make INVOcell available to populations with lower incomes.
INVOcell Retention Device: This is a single-use, modified diaphragm that includes holes to allow for natural drainage of vaginal fluids. The current model is an FDA cleared and CE Marked product purchased from a US company. This retention device currently sells for $70 each. In 2016 the Company began the process of developing its own single use product. This retention device specification is equivalent to the current modified diaphragm but will not be available for sale for some time until the completion of additional testing before being accepted and released by INVO Bioscience for commercial sale.
 
INVO Holding/Warming Blocks:  The holding blocks will be sold as a tool for viewing and retrieving the embryos from the inner chamber.  Each physician will need a minimum of two blocks depending on the number of cycles he/she performs.  The blocks will sell for $400 each.  These blocks may provide an additional revenue stream.
 
Fixed Laboratory Equipment:  The equipment used in the INVO procedure (microscope with video system, bench centrifuge, incubator without CO2, bench warmer and laminar flow hood) is readily available in the market.  The complete set up for the INVO procedure currently costs approximately $60,000 in the U.S.
 

9
 
 Table of Contents

Sales Strategy
 
As of December 31, 2017, sales and marketing activities are being performed by the Company’s CEO and VP of Global Operations. We anticipate building our sales team in 2018 and beyond, subject to raising additional capital sufficient to support such efforts (as to which there is no guaranty).  Our sales efforts will follow three approaches:
Direct Sales to Physicians – In the United States our intention is to sell directly to physicians to keep our prices as low as possible.
 
Distributor Sales to Physicians -- In foreign countries, we have and will continue to establish local distributors to access the countries’ markets.  With the distributor-to-physician model, the distributors will be selling to IVF centers, medical practices and physicians directly.  We will support the distributors’ efforts with training, both to the distributors’ trainers as well as to the physicians directly.  We currently maintain written distribution agreements in the following countries: India, Canada, Colombia, and Brazil.  We will be expanding our international sales & marketing presence upon receiving additional funding (as to which there is no guaranty). 
 
Partnering with Doctors in opening centers that offer INVO as the primary reproductive service – We are looking to work with current doctors in areas of the US where there is demand but currently no IVF facilities. This approach may take many different forms all of which we are willing to explore.
 
Target Markets
 
The breadth and depth of our expansion in 2018 will be subject to the amount of additional capital we raise (as to which there is no guaranty).  We expect to continue to launch the sale of the INVOcell Culture System in the United States, Canada, Asia, South & Central America and India.  
Worldwide – According to ESHRE February 2018, one in six couples worldwide experience some form of infertility problem at least once during their reproductive lifetime. The current prevalence of infertility lasting for at least 12 months is estimated to be around 9% worldwide for women aged 20-44. In 2014, the latest year for which figures are available, almost 800,000 treatment cycles were reported from 39 European countries.  The global need for ART is estimated to be at least 1,500 cycles/million population per year.  With the global population of 7.5 billion, the estimate for infertility prevalence is 50 million couples.    
U.S. -- According to The National Survey of Family Growth from the Centers for Disease Control, in the year 2014, 7.5 million women in the U.S. had difficulty conceiving (12.4%) With only about 760,000 couples receiving fertility treatment (IUI, IVF and other treatments). This leaves more than six million couples receiving no treatment at all for their infertility. According to the ASRM’s 2015 Access to Care Summit White Paper, the largest barrier to patients seeking treatment is the cost of the treatment and the lack of insurance coverage for the cost. We are currently offering the INVO procedure in the U.S. at $6,500 dollars per cycle inclusive of medications.  Our goal is to penetrate 5% of the currently untreated infertility market over the next few years, although no assurances can be made that we will achieve our goal in our target markets or at all.
Europe -- ESHRE estimated in 2018 that Europe had approximately 10 million infertile couples, of which about 800,000 were estimated to have received ART treatments.  That would leave over 9 million infertile couples untreated.
Preliminary Sales Strategy
 
Launching INVO in the U.S. market required US FDA DeNovo clearance, which we received in November 2015.  Our strategy is to focus our resources primarily on US sales through 2018 to make INVO the standard of care in the United States.  Currently we are working with doctors who are interested in offering the INVO Procedure at a low introductory price and providing training.  This approach is working well so far as we have over 50 facilities offering or referring the INVO Procedure.  As these doctors are adding our INVOcell device and procedure to their existing services it is a slow process as we are the “new treatment on the block.” Some patients are willing to try it and are thrilled with the experience while others are sticking with the 20 year old more traditional routes. Based on our initial experience on average it appears to be taking physician’s practices 6-9 months to get up to speed. Some are taking less time others even longer than nine months. We are taking steps to assist those doctors who are having difficulty.
 
FDA clearance is required in many countries before they will allow U.S. products to be registered in those countries. The FDA approval granted in 2015 will allow the INVOcell to be registered and market in countries such as Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Malaysia, China and other countries in Asia.
 
The CE Mark, which is currently being renewed, allows us to sell our INVO device in Europe and certain countries in South America, the Middle East and Africa, subject to local registration requirements.  Our strategy is to focus on the U.S. over the next two years and then go back out to international markets; when we go back to the international market, we expect to have additional resources to launch INVO in the developing world. These areas are in need of less costly fertility treatments due to the economics and high infertility rates of up to 25% and relatively low availability of IVF procedures.
 

10
 
 Table of Contents

Insurance Reimbursement for Infertility Treatment
 
In the United States there is generally minimal insurance coverage for infertility treatments, and what coverage there is varies on a state by state basis. Fifteen states mandate some form of insurance reimbursement for infertility treatment.  Three states mandate reimbursement for IVF, while other states cover some form of infertility treatment, but they may also specifically exclude IVF due to cost. Some states have coverage for IUI and not IVF. In addition, we believe that fifteen other states are considering mandating some form of coverage for infertility treatment.  We would approach these states first for possible insurance coverage since, we believe, an actual birth from INVO is less expensive than a birth that is obtained through IUI.  We will begin this effort upon receiving sufficient additional financing (as to which there is no guaranty).  Currently, many third-party payers require that an infertile patient have at least three cycles of IUI before going on to IVF.  According to Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine, in 2015 the pregnancy rate for each natural IUI cycle is about 4 to 5 percent, and when fertility drugs are used, the pregnancy rate is about 7 to 16 percent. There are no national statistics on live birth rates.  Therefore, many of those patients are often referred to IVF when multiple IUI attempts are not successful.  In the future, we estimate that third-party insurance payers could save more than $7,000 per pregnancy by requiring the patient to try INVOcell first.
 
Most European countries have some level of coverage for infertility treatment, but the level of coverage varies from country to country and even within countries.  For example, the National Health Service in the UK covers 20% of most costs for infertility treatment.  However, that standard is not applied universally throughout the UK and some counties provide almost no coverage.    In 2010, in Canada, the Province of Quebec mandated the full payment of up to 3 ART cycles for residents; however, in November of 2016 they stopped the program.
 
We believe that the INVOcell process will be treated favorably by insurance companies because it lowers cost and has a high efficacy rate.  According to the data we have found the Company has determined based on the typical number of cycles it take to get pregnant, in the US, the average cost per pregnancy using IUI is $12,000 and IUI is only indicated for approximately 40% of the infertile population.  However, the INVOcell device, which based on the 450 clinical cycles submitted to the FDA in 2014 by the Company, has equivalent pregnancy rates as traditional IVF, and is a very effective treatment for a majority of infertile couples.  According to ASRM, the average cost of and IVF cycle in the U.S. is $11,000 - $16,000 range resulting in a per pregnancy IVF cost of over $22,000. With the INVO procedure the price for an INVO pregnancy is approximately $11,200. Therefore, we believe that there is a savings of more than $11,000 (approximately 50% of the cost) per pregnancy by using INVO versus IVF.  
 
Branding and Promotion
 
We have a logo associated with the INVOcell device that is refined for the infertility market.  We have trademarked “INVO Bioscience”, “INVOCELL” and “INVO”.   In 2016 we launched our new website. We have tried to make it user friendly and provide the information people are looking for, such as locations offering INVO and a comprehensive FAQ section.  We are continuing to improve our website to include special pages for clinicians and patients.  Subject to available capital, the improvements will include materials that medical professionals and patients can print, including status reports and news items.  It would be expected to include training videos for potential customers, both physicians and patients, who want to learn exactly how the INVOcell works.
REGULATION
 
Domestic Regulations
 
The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally by the FDA in the U.S. and corresponding foreign agencies.  The FDA administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the regulations promulgated there under.  We are subject to the standards and procedures with respect to the manufacture of medical devices and are subject to inspection by the FDA for compliance with such standards and procedures.  The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness.  The INVOcell device and process secured a DeNovo Class II notification clearance in November 2015 to allow us to introduce them into the U.S. market.  
 
Every company that develops, manufactures or assembles medical devices is required to register with the FDA and adhere to certain “good manufacturing practices” in accordance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which regulates the manufacture of medical devices, prescribes record-keeping procedures and provides for the routine inspection of facilities for compliance with such regulations.  The FDA also has broad regulatory powers in the areas of clinical testing, marketing and advertising of medical devices.
 

11
 
 Table of Contents

Medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA.  If the FDA believes that a company may not be operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the FDA and the Department of Justice can:

· | place the company under observation and re-inspect the facilities; 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
· | issue a warning letter apprising of violating conduct; 
· | detain or seize products; 
· | mandate a recall; 
· | seek to enjoin future violations; and 
· | seek civil and criminal penalties against the company, its officers or its employees.
· | issue a form 483 to initiate corrective actions by the company 

 
INVO Bioscience has successfully completed two comprehensive inspections by the US FDA occurring in January 2012 and November 2014 resulting in no action indicated (NAI), (we passed).
 
International Regulations
 
We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries where our products are sold.  Many of the regulations applicable to our products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA.  The national health or regulatory organizations of certain countries require that our products be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries.  Many of the countries we are targeting do not have a formal approval process of their own but rely on either FDA clearance or the European approval, the CE mark.  Some countries require a registration process of listing the INVOcell with the governing body in addition to the United States and European approvals, the CE mark.
 
Our activities during our development stage have included developing our business plan, seeking regulatory clearance in both inside and outside of the United States and raising capital
 
With CE marking, we have had, and when we receive re-certification we anticipate we will have, the necessary regulatory authority to distribute our product after registration in the European Economic Area (i.e., Europe, Australia, and New Zealand).  In addition, we have the ability to markets in some parts of the Middle East and South America as they do not have medical device regulations.  Every country has different requirements; we have completed registrations in some, are in process with others.  We continue to work with doctors and distributors submitting additional registrations.  Certain other countries require that we first receive FDA clearance.  In general, we are registering the product based on the size of the market and our ability to service it given our resources.
 
In 2009, INVO Bioscience received clearance from Health Canada to market, sell and train on the use of the INVOcell and INVO procedure in Canada. Although the Canadian government approved the INVOcell, in Canada the local physician collages must authorize the use of new products in each province. These governing colleges also want to see the product approved in the country of origin before moving forward in Canada. The fact that the INVOcell is deemed a disruptive technology has prevented our partner Invaron Pharmaceuticals from being able to effectively launch product in Canada over the past years.  With the current FDA approval, Effortless IVF, CA with the approval of the local physician collage raised funds in 2016 to start the build of an INVO only center in Calgary Canada; that center completed all of its certifications and started treating patients in August 2017. As with most new businesses, the center has been going through some significant learning curves and working out operational issues. They have recently started to actively treat patients on their waiting list.  The Team at Effortless IVF in Calgary are hoping to use the learning from this site to expand its reach across Canada and have already been eyeing their next locations.
 
In 2012 we received Brazil’s National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) clearance approving the sale and use of the INVOcell throughout Brazil.  The approval opens the door for INVO Bioscience to one of the largest markets and fastest growing economies in the world with over 190 million people.  In 2016 we completed a new registration and added an additional distribution channel which was approved by ANVISA in 2017. We are looking forward to raising funds and establish a sales and marketing team to address this opportunity.
 
Again in 2012 we selected Sanzyme Ltd. as our partner and distributor for India.  Since being selected Sanzyme has been marketing and training doctors throughout the country.  In late 2015 they added an embryologist to focus on INVO Procedure training and continue to add additional resources. In 2016, Sanzyme presented at fifteen conferences including two international conferences and one world congress, IFS. They opened a training and use center for doctors and embryologists in December 2017 in Hyderabad. The intention here is to train and allow doctors who do not have the proper facilities to perform procedures using their products.  They have started expanding their geographical reach across India.
 

12
 
 Table of Contents

Intellectual Property
 
The INVOcell device was specially developed to optimize ease of use and effectiveness of an INVO procedure at an affordable price.  During 2013-2015 more than 500 cases have been performed in Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Brazil with effectiveness equivalent to IVF and significantly exceeding that of IUI. In 2014, a clinical study of 40 patients comparing INVO to IVF demonstrated the same clinical pregnancy efficacy rate of 60% in both groups. In addition more than 800 cases of an INVO-type procedure have been documented in peer-reviewed journals since the 1980s using an incubation device not specifically designed for the process but functionally capable of demonstrating success rates equivalent to IVF at that time.   This product development process has resulted in two active patents worldwide covering both the INVOcell device and the INVO process.  
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had one full time employee, Ms. Karloff a director and officer. Our VP of Global Operations was a consultant and Mr. Bowdring, a director and an officer along with the other directors assist when needed.   Excluding directors and officers, we had no employees in from 2010 through 2017.
Available Information
 
We maintain an Internet website at www.invobioscience.com.  We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and each amendment to these reports.  Each such report is posted on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such report is filed with the SEC via the EDGAR system. 
 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this Annual Report.  Our website address is included in this Annual Report as an inactive textual reference only.
 
