Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
------------+----------

Overview
 
Tecnoglass Inc. is a leading manufacturer of architectural glass, windows, and associated aluminum products for the global commercial and residential construction industries. Tecnoglass is the #1 architectural glass transformation company in Latin America and the second largest glass fabricator serving the United States. Headquartered in Barranquilla, Colombia, the Company operates out of a 2.7 million square foot vertically-integrated, state-of-the-art manufacturing complex that provides easy access to the Americas, the Caribbean, and the Pacific. Tecnoglass supplies over 900 customers in North, Central and South America, with the United States accounting for more than 70% of revenues. Tecnoglass’ tailored, high-end products are found on some of the world’s most distinctive properties, including the El Dorado Airport (Bogota), 50 United Nations Plaza (New York), Trump Plaza (Panama), Trump Tower (Miami), and The Woodlands (Houston).
 
In December 2016, as part of our strategy to vertically integrate our operations, we acquired 100% of the stock of ESW LLC, 85.06% of which was acquired directly by the Company and 14.94% by our subsidiary ES, for a total purchase price of $13.5 million, which consisted of (i) 734,400 ordinary shares issued in connection with the transaction for approximately $9.2 million based on a stock price of $12.50, (ii) approximately $2.3 million in cash, and (iii) approximately $2.0 million related to the assignment of certain accounts receivable.
 
As the Acquisition of ESW was deemed to be a transaction between entities under common control, the assets and liabilities were transferred at the historical cost of ESW, with prior periods retroactively adjusted to include the historical financial results of the acquired company for the period they were controlled by the previous owners of ESW LLC in the Company’s financial statements.
 
On March 1, 2017, the Company acquired a 100% controlling interest in GM&P, a South Florida glazing contracting company that sells and installs our products, acting as an “arm” to support a broader geographical reach to reach new clients while providing a comprehenvise offering. The primary reasons for the acquisitions were to expand into different markets in the U.S. while streamlining its distribution logistics of Company products, and to be able to carry out light fabrication in the United States when economically advantageous. The purchase price for the acquisition was $35,000, of which $6,000 was paid in cash by the Company on May 17, 2017, with the remaining amount to be payable by the Company in cash, stock of the Company or a combination of both at the Company´s sole discretion originally within 180 days after closing, and subsequently amended to be paid by May 15, 2018.
 
Our Business
 
General
 
We are a leading manufacturer of hi-spec architectural glass and windows for the western hemisphere residential and commercial construction industries, operating through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Headquartered in Barranquilla, Colombia. We operate out of a 2.7 million square foot vertically-integrated, state-of-the-art manufacturing complex that provides easy access to the Americas, the Caribbean, and the Pacific.

4
-


The Company is a leading manufacturer of a variety of glass products installed primarily in commercial and residential buildings, including tempered safety, double thermo-acoustic and laminated glass. Tecnoglass products are installed in hotels, residential buildings, commercial and corporate centers, universities, airports and hospitals in a variety of applications such as floating facades, curtain walls, windows, doors, handrails, interior and bathroom spatial dividers. In 2015 Tecnoglass established its Solartec plant, to produce low emissivity glass with high thermal insulation specifications using soft coat technology. Tecnoglass also produces aluminum products such as profiles, rods, bars, plates and other hardware used in the manufacture of windows..
 
Furthermore, the Company is a leader in the production of high-end windows, with more than 33 years of experience in the glass and aluminum structure assembly market in Colombia. The Company designs, manufactures, markets and installs architectural systems for high, medium and low rise construction, glass and aluminum windows and doors, curtain walls, floating facades, office dividers and interiors, and commercial display windows.
 
Glass Magazine ranked Tecnoglass as the second largest Glass & Metal Fabricator serving the U.S. market in 2017. We believe that it is the leading glass transformation company in Colombia, capturing 51% of the market share in the country by sales and volume based on external sources.
 
The Company has an important and dominant presence in the Florida market, which has historically represented (and continues to represent) a substantial portion of our total sales and backlog. The Company grew in the Florida market not only through sustained organic growth, but also through the asset acquisitions of Glasswall LLC and RC Aluminum, both in 2014, the acquisition of ESW in 2016, and the acquisition of GM&P in March of 2017, which will continue to reinforce our expansion strategy into U.S. markets. The Company sought to proactively diversify its presence product offering by expanding its U.S. sales outside of the Florida market with high value-added products such as curtain walls and floating facades, products that are in high demand and we believe represent a new trend in architecture. As an example, these have been used in El Dorado Airport (Bogotá), University of Baltimore Law School (Baltimore) and Via 57 West (New York). Due to the sophistication of these new products, we believe that we can generate higher margins through the sale of these products as compared to traditional window frames or floor-to-ceiling windows.
 
In Panama, the Company sells products primarily to companies participating in large construction projects in the exclusive areas of Panama City. For example, Company products were supplied in the construction of the tallest building in Latin America, The Point, as well as in the construction of other modern hotels in the region, such as Megapolis, and in the development of the Soho Plaza, a complex consisting of a shopping mall and two skyscrapers.
 
Competitive Strengths
 
Vertical Integration
 
We believe we are unique in vertically integrating the purchase of raw materials, the manufacture and transformation of glass and aluminum products and the subsequent production and distribution of customized glass and windows for architectural and industrial settings. By vertically integrating these functions, we are able to price our products competitively while maintaining strict quality control measures to guarantee the high quality of our products. Additionally, we benefit from significant advantages in efficiency and time-to-market for new or customized products. This vertically integrated model provides attractive margins with significant operating leverage.

5
-


Ideally situated, with easy access to cost-efficient transport hubs
 
Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Barranquilla, Colombia, which is strategically located near three of the country’s major ports: Barranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta. These ports, which are no more than a two hours’ drive from each other, provide us with maritime access to all major markets globally. The Barranquilla port is just 16 kilometers away from our production facilities, and shipping to Miami’s main port is a three-day journey, six days to New York and 11 days to Los Angeles (through the Panama Canal). Our location provides a significant competitive advantage in light of the relatively low cost of shipping our products from Barranquilla to the U.S. (particularly Florida) as compared to our main competitors located elsewhere, even including our competitors located in Midwest U.S., given the significant trade imbalance of Colombia with the U.S and the large number of containers coming into the country that would otherwise comeback empty. We believe that as compared to our main U.S competitors, we are able to ship very competitively while being able to be agile and responsive to our customer´s needs.
 
High Barriers to Entry
 
Entry into many of the markets that we serve is limited due to the technical certifications required on high specification building projects such as IGCC, IqNet Icontec 14001 and ISO9001. Our success in those markets is due in large part to our ability to produce sophisticated products, the breadth of our product offering and our reputation for delivering high quality, made-to-order architectural glass on time. These factors are required to compete successfully for multimillion dollar projects typical of our business. Given the vertically-integrated nature of our operations, including the aluminum extrusion products provided by TG, there is a more limited set of competitors and entry into these markets. In addition, the equipment needed to operate in the glass and window industry is expensive, requiring a significant upfront capital investment. In addition, our employee training program ensures a dedicated and loyal work force, giving us an advantage that potential competitors lack, as they may not be able to bear the cost of providing similar training or retaining similarly trained employees.
Innovation
 
We have made significant investments in machinery and equipment in order to deploy the latest technology in our production lines. We have state-of-the-art glass making equipment, glass laminating lines and high-volume insulating equipment, which allow for a more precise and high quality manufacturing less raw material waste and the chance of developing new products. Being able to employ state-of-the-art technology is a competitive differentiator that (i) allows us to produce higher-quality products creating a competitive pricing advantage that can translate into higher margins, (ii) allows for less material waste and a more energy efficient process, and (iii) enables the manufacturing of a broader array of products.

● | During the last three years, we acquired three aluminum extrusion presses that together added more than 1,000 tons of production capacity per month, along with related aluminum paint line and a new foundry. Overall capital expenditures totaled $80.2 million in 2015 and $42.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2016, and $8.8 million in 2017, completing a strong growth Capex phase that we believe, will allow us to grow into the future. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | In 2017 we completed two phases of our solar panel project to generate approximately 5 megawatts of eco-friendly energy and save approximately 6%-8% on energy costs. 
● | In August 2014, we entered into a contract to purchase equipment to produce soft coated low emissivity glass as part of our improvement plan, which started production in the last quarter of 2015 and was in production throughout 2016 and 2017. 
● | We purchased two glass-laminating and tempering furnaces that use state-of the-art technologies to produce tempered glass with no distortion using air cushion technology (TecnoAir) and to produce curved glass in a broad range of easily modifiable curvatures (TecnoBend). TecnoAir technology glass sheets “float” on air pressing systems rather than running on metallic rolls. TecnoBend has a flexible mold that permits different curved shapes to be employed in architectural structures. 
● | For certain of our products, we offer DuPont Sentryglass®, laminated glass interlayers recognized as industry-leading laminated glass solutions with five times the resistance strength of competing materials. 
● | We also use a laminator and jumbo tempering oven capable of producing extra-large slabs of laminated glass, which are sought after in the high-end window market. For example, our extra-large glass slabs have been recently used in El Dorado Airport (Bogotá). 

 
These investments in machinery and equipment, together with our highly trained labor force, allow us to offer state-of-the-art custom designed products that are tailored to meet customer demands.
 
Competitive cost structure
 
We provide high quality products to our customers at competitive prices primarily as a result of the efficiencies we achieve through vertical integration and comparatively low labor costs. Our employee training program ensures a dedicated and loyal work force that works efficiently and also is less susceptible to workplace injuries. These competitive advantages give us greater flexibility in pricing without adversely affecting our profit margins and allow our products to be competitive in a variety of markets.
 
Superior Customer Service
 
In addition to manufacturing high quality products, our value proposition to our customers is based on industry-leading lead times, on-time delivery and superior after-sale support. Through the coordinated efforts of our sales teams, product specialists, and field service teams, we deliver high quality service to our customers, from the time the initial order is placed through the delivery and installation of our products. By providing an efficient flow of product from order through delivery, our manufacturing processes allow us to deliver made-to-order products consistently on time, which we believe is an important competitive strength.

6
-

Management Experience
 
José Daes, our chief executive officer, and Christian Daes, our chief operating officer, have more than 30 years of industry experience, respectively. In addition, our executive management teams have worked together for many years at our operating subsidiaries. This long tenure in the industry, and as a team, has enabled our management to build significant relationships with both clients and field level management. We believe that these relationships, coupled with management’s strong technical expertise, create a significant competitive advantage.
 
Strong relationship with local communities
 
For several decades, we have had committed resources to improving the quality of life of our employees and the local communities surrounding our plants. As a result of these initiatives, we have developed close and cooperative relationships with local communities in Colombia, which are supported by several social responsibility initiatives we have undertaken. We view our employees as key to our historical and future success and therefore have focused initiatives of our non-for-profit, Fundación Tecnoglass, on offering our employees and their families the resources to purchase or improve their homes through the Programa de Mejora de Vivienda. Additionally, our foundation offers educational stipends for higher education pursuits. During 2017, 40 families were benefited from our Programa de Mejora de Vivienda, and we sponsored 192 employees and their children through our scholarship program, Programa de Becas. Fundación Tecnoglass also supports a school for primary and secondary education in the La Paz neighborhood in Barranquilla, Colombia, and, in collaboration with Fundación Colombia Somos Todos and soccer star James Rodriguez, we support children in vulnerable neighborhoods to thrive through sports, where 400 children were benefited in 2017; among several other social welfare programs designed to lend support to the most vulnerable citizens in Barranquilla and its surrounding communities. All of these initiatives have allowed us to maintain an excellent relationship with our employees, in which we have been able to maintain a labor union free environment since our incorporation.
 
Strategy
 
We have identified the following items that we believe are important in advancing our business:
 
Development of additional high-value products supported by continued investments in equipment and state-of-the-art technology.
 
We have a track record of developing new products and will continue to focus on capitalizing on new product opportunities in the future. We constantly identify shifting global trends and growing marketplace needs, and design proposals to meet those needs. For instance, with the installation of our soft coating facility, we are now able to manufacture low emissivity glass that is energy efficient and will allow us to service a growing market that demands “green” initiatives. We will seek to leverage our existing platform of cutting-edge production facilities to adapt our products to evolving demands for structural architectural glass in our current markets and evaluate opportunities to enter new markets. We expect our reputation and proven track-record of innovation will position us well to take advantage of these opportunities.
 
We made investments of $80.2million during 2015, $42.5 million during 2016. Investments during the year ended December 31, 2017 amounted to $8.8 and were comprised of machinery and equipment to enhance our installed capacity and completion of two phases of our solar panel project to generate approximately 5 megawatts of eco-friendly energy which we expect will save us approximately 6%-8% on energy costs.
 
Additionally, we have implemented new technologies to produce tempered glass that offers notably more transparency with significantly less distortion than industry standard using air cushion technology, as well as new technology to produce curved glass in a broad range of easily modifiable curvatures. We further intend to expand our operation to provide value-added glass products such as our soft-coated low-emissivity window panes that minimize the effect of solar heat.
 
We believe these innovative products will provide us with a competitive edge. The continued development of new products with the corresponding investments in technology, allows us to support our track-record of innovation and allow for continued customer demand by fulfilling ever-changing needs.
 

7
-


Manufacture the highest quality products in the market through a rigorous quality assurance program
 
Our plants are organized internally by processes, each of which is independently and continually supervised by the Quality Assurance department. The Quality Assurance department maintains rigorous oversight over energy, water, recyclable waste and process optimization indicators, in order to produce high quality sustainable products. Our quality assurance control system has established the measures and indicators necessary for the inspections implemented over the reception of materials, production process and final products. Additionally, between 5% and 10% of our production, randomly chosen, is sent to our laboratories to verify compliance with a variety of quality standards, such as water leaks, functionality, manufacturing and accessories, through tests undertaken according to ASTM and AAMA rules. We have implemented these measures in order to reach an effective control in detecting potential issues and to take the specific actions to mitigate their occurrence. By providing the highest quality products and ensuring they meet the highest standards of quality, we seek to ensure customer satisfaction and loyalty.
 
Continued vertical integration provides added profitability and operational enhancement
 
We benefit from having our key operating companies and processes operating together at a combined facility, providing advantages in meeting customer and market needs, controlling supply chain issues and managing operating costs. By continuing to operate as a vertically integrated company, we seek to further enhance productivity, create cost efficiencies and increase operating margins. In recent developments, we strive to further vertically integrate the operations of the Company through the acquisition of ESW, an importer and distributor of Company products in the U.S in December 2016. Furthermore, on March 1, 2017, the Company acquired GM&P, acting as an “arm” to support a broader geographical sell to reach new clients while providing a comprehenvise offering. GM&P had a long-standing commercial relationship with the Company prior to the acquisition, working alongside it in different projects within the U.S.
 
Leverage strength in Florida market to further penetrate U.S.
 
We believe we have an established and leading presence in the Florida construction market as providers of high value, impact-resistant glass products. ES’s hurricane-proof products are certified in compliance with the stringent requirements of hurricane-proof windows in accordance with applicable U.S. regulations. With a quality of product proven by our success and compliance in the impact-resistant market, we have successfully entered the U.S. remodeling and replacement parts market. In addition, we have grown geographically in the U.S., particularly into other coastal markets on the East Coast which are affected by hurricanes, significant temperature fluctuations and other extreme weather. As we continue to explore opportunities in other markets in the U.S., we intend to leverage the strong reputation we have developed in markets such as Florida to take advantage of a resurgent commercial and residential real estate sector.
 
Continue to leverage strength in Colombia market to further penetrate Latin America
 
With a strong base in Colombia, we have already successfully expanded into nearby geographies. Our glass products are featured in major construction projects in Argentina, Aruba, Costa Rica, Panama and Puerto Rico. As the construction market throughout Latin America grows, we are positioned to capture new growth in the markets we have currently penetrated, as well as in new high growth countries. We will also take advantage of our geographical location to deliver products to South American markets at relatively low shipping and operating cost.
 
Maintain fast and reliable delivery to customers due to strategic location
 
From the Port of Barranquilla, products can be transported to Panama by air in one hour and to Houston and Miami within two hours, within two days by sea to Panama and within four days by sea to Houston and Miami. Our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis complements the relatively low cost of shipping our products from Barranquilla to Florida and supports the value of our strategic location. As a result of this strategic location, we are able to meet the requirements of architectures and developers who seek to obtain building products on a schedule that does not interfere with their construction progress. As we target different projects and markets, we will seek to take advantage of our unique delivery capabilities to satisfy demands of the construction industry.
 
Products
 
The Company manufactures and sells the following products:
 
Soft Coat Glass - manufactured by depositing metal particles on the surface of the glass inside a vacuum chamber. This product offers excellent thermal insulation designed to improve energy efficiency of buildings.
 
Laminated/Thermo-Laminated Glass - produced by bonding two glass sheets with an intermediate film in-between. As a safety feature, this product fractures into small pieces if it breaks.
 

8
-


Thermo-Acoustic Glass - manufactured with two or more glass sheets separated by an aluminum or micro-perforated steel profile. This product has a double-seal system that ensures the unit’s tightness, buffering noise and improving thermal control. This product serves as an excellent noise barrier, which is used especially in zones close to airports, traffic or wherever there are unpleasant sounds.
 
Tempered Glass - glass subject to a tempering process through elevated temperatures resulting in greater superficial elasticity and resistance than conventional glass.
 
Silk-Screened Glass - special paint is applied to glass using automatic machinery and numerical control which ensures paint homogeneity and an excellent finish.
 
Curved Glass - produced by bending a flat glass sheet over a mold, using an automated heat process, which maintains the glass’ physical properties.
 
Digital Print Glass - digital printing allows any kind of appearance required by the client, offering versatility to projects.
 
The Company’s aluminum products sold through its Alutions brand include bars, plates, profiles, rods and tubes used primarily in the manufacture of architectural glass settings including windows, doors, spatial separators and similar products.
 
Curtain Wall / Floating facades - a non-structural window screen suspended outside a building and are available in many technical specifications for high performance required in high-rise buildings, resistant to strong winds and ensuring high quality standards.
 
Stick façade systems – are glass and aluminum façade elements fixed to the structure of the building and the glass and spandrel are inserted in the grid on site available in many combinations to define colors, thickness, glass types and finishes, and types of ventilation and design complements.
 
Windows and Doors - line of window and door products defined by the different types of glass finish, such as normal, impact resistant, hurricane-proof, safety, soundproof and thermal. Additionally, they are available in numerous structures, including fixed body, sliding windows, casement windows, hung windows, sliding doors and swinging doors.
 
Interior dividers and Commercial display windows - commercial and interior display windows with a broad range of profiles, colors and crystal finishes, as well as bathroom stall dividers, office cubicle separators and closets Products combine functionality, aesthetics and elegance and are available in a broad range of structures and materials.
 
Hurricane-proof windows - combine heavy-duty aluminum or vinyl frames with special laminated glass to provide protection from hurricane-force winds up to 180 mph and wind-borne debris by maintaining their structural integrity and preventing penetration by impacting objects.
 
Other – awnings, structures, automatic doors and other components of architectural systems.
 
Brands and Trademarks
 
Our main brands are Tecnoglass, ESWindows and Alutions. Our registered trademarks include “Alutions by Tecnoglass”, “ECOMAX by ESWINDOWS”, “Tecnobend”, “Tecnoair”, “ESWINDOWS Interiors”, “ESW Windows and Walls”, “Solartec by Tecnoglass”, “Prestige by ESWINDOWS”, “Eli by ESWINDOWS”, “Alessia by ESWINDOWS”.
Sales, Marketing and Customer Service
 
Sales and marketing
 
Our sales strategy primarily focuses on attracting and retaining customers by consistently providing exceptional customer service, leading product quality, and competitive pricing. Our customers also value our shorter lead times, knowledge of building code requirements and technical expertise, which collectively generate significant customer loyalty. Our products are marketed using a combination of internal sales representatives, independent sales representatives and directly to distributors. Our internal sales representatives receive a portion of their performance-based compensation based on sales and profitability metrics. We primarily market our products based on product quality, outstanding service, shorter lead times and on-time delivery.
 
We employ a highly efficient number of in-house sales employees. Some of our sales and marketing efforts are handled by area sales representatives who work on a commission basis.
 
We do not rely on significant traditional advertising expenditures to drive net sales. We have established and maintain credibility primarily through the strength of our products, our customer service and quality assurance, the speed at which we deliver finished products and the attractiveness of our pricing. Our advertising expenditures consist primarily of maintaining our subsidiaries’ websites.
 

9
-

Customer Service
 
We believe that our ability to provide customers outstanding service quality serves as a strong competitive differentiator. Our customer relationships are established and maintained through the coordinated efforts of our sales and production teams. We employ a highly responsive and efficient team of professionals devoted to addressing customer support with the goal of resolving any issue in a timely manner. In order to promote customer loyalty and employee development, we developed an employee training program with the primary objectives of educating our staff to be aware of client and supplier needs and familiarizing them with our strategic goals in order to improve the competitiveness, productivity and quality of all products offered.
Working Capital Requirements
 
Trade accounts receivable generated $2.5 million in 2017 as we increased our focus on collection efforts and experienced a more moderate revenue growth during the year, however, the principal use of cash has historically been related to trade accounts receivable which amounted to $26.0 million and $29.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Such use is directly correlated with the company´s ongoing growth and an industry related longer cash cycle during these years.
 
Another use of cash is related to purchases of inventory requirements are not as the Company builds up work in progress and finished product inventories commensurate with expected future sales. During 2016, the Company spent a fair amount of time and resources undertaking “lean manufacturing” best practices with and external consultant and as a result, it was able to better manage inventory levels and improve turnover during the year. A substantial amount of our working capital requirements are satisfied by cash generated from trade accounts payable, which generated $13.1 million more during the year ended December 31, 2017, compared with a use of $1.0 million during 2016 and $14.8 million generated in 2015. Purchase of inventories was the main use of cash in operating activities in 2017 as the Company builds up work in progress and finished product commensurate with expected future sales.
 
Customers
 
Our customers include architects, building owners, general contractors and glazing subcontractors in the commercial construction market. We have over 900 customers. Of our 100 most representative customers, which represent over 82% of our sales, about 56% are located in North America, 2% in Central America and the Caribbean, and 42% in South America. Only one customer, GM&P, accounted for more than 10% or more of our net sales during 2016 and 2015 with 26% and 14% of sales, respectively. On March 1, 2017 the Company entered into and consummated a purchase agreement with Giovanni Monti, the owner of 100% of the outstanding shares of GM&P. With the acquisition of GM&P, the Company has reduced its customer risk concentration as no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2017.
Backlog
 
We had combined outstanding orders of $499 million as of December 31, 2017 as compared to $396 million and $375 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We do not believe that backlog is indicative of our future results of operations or prospects. Although we seek commitments from customers well in advance of shipment dates, actual confirmed orders are typically not received until close to the required shipment dates.
Materials and Suppliers
 
Our primary manufacturing materials include glass, ionoplast, polyvinyl butyral, and aluminum and vinyl extrusions. Although in some instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by us or the supplier counterparties on limited notice. Typically, all of our materials are readily available from a number of sources, and no supplier delays or shortages are anticipated.
 
We source raw materials and glass necessary to manufacture our products from a variety of domestic and foreign suppliers. During the year ended December 31, 2017 two suppliers individually accounted for more than 10% of total raw material purchases, which in aggregate represent 30% of raw material purchases . For the year ended December 31, 2016, three suppliers individually accounted for more than 10% of total raw material purchases, which in aggregate represent 38% of raw material purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2015, no single supplier accounted for more than 10% of raw material purchases.
 
Warranties
 
We offer product warranties which we believe are competitive for the markets in which our products are sold. The nature and extent of these warranties depend upon the product. Our standard warranties are generally from five to ten years for architectural glass, curtain wall, laminated and tempered glass, window and door products. Warranties are not priced or sold separately and do not provide the customer with services or coverages in addition to the assurance that the product complies with original agreed-upon specifications. In the event of a claim against a product for which we have received a warranty from the supplier, we transfer the claim back to the supplier. The Company evaluated historical information regarding claims for replacements under warranties and concluded that the costs that the Company has incurred in relation to these warranties have not been material.

10
--

Certifications
 
Among our many designations and certifications, Tecnoglass has earned the Miami-Dade County Notice of Acceptance (“NOA”), one of the most demanding certificates in the industry and a requirement to market hurricane-resistant glass in Florida. Tecnoglass’ products comply with Miami-Dade county’s safety code standards as its laminated anti-hurricane glass resists impact, pressure, water and wind. Tecnoglass is also the only company in Latin America authorized by PPG Industries and Guardian Industries to manufacture floating glass facades.
 
Our subsidiaries have received a number of other certifications from other national and international standard-setting bodies.
 
TG Certifications include:
 

● | NTC-1578 
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | ASTM E774 1997 
● | ISO 9001: 2008 Certificate of Quality Assurance 
● | ISO 14001: 2004 Certificate of Environmental Management 
● | Safety Glazing Certification Council (SGCC) for tempered and laminated glass: ANZI 
● | Z97 1-2004 
● | International Glass Certification Council (IGCC) for insulated glass: ASTM E774 - 97 
● | Pittsburgh Plate Glass (PPG) certified supplier 
● | Member of ACOLVISE (Colombia Association of Safety Glass Transformers) 
● | OHSAS 18001:2007. Occupational Health and Safety managament System 

 
ES Certifications include:
 

● | NTC-ISO 9001: 2008 Certificate of Quality Assurance 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | NTC-ISO 14001: 2004 Certificate of Environmental Management 
● | Member of the American Architectural Manufacturers Association (AAMA) 
● | Complies with Miami-Dade County’s stringent safety code regulations for hurricane-proof windows 

Competitors
 
We have local and international competitors that also focus on glass and aluminum transformation, window ensemble and installation and designing in the commercial and residential construction markets. The US Market in which we compete is mainly comprised of manufacturers, distributors and installers of glass curtain walls, windows and doors for commercial and residential buildings. Based on external sources, we estimate that we capture 1% of the US consolidated market (manufacturing and services), which represents an attractive opportunity for further penetration. In Colombia, we are the leading producer of high end windows, with more than 33 years of experience in the glass and aluminum structure assembly market, capturing approximately 51% of the market share. The industry has a few well-known players and is mostly atomized and comprised of small competitors.
 
The key factors on which we and our competitors compete for business include: quality, price and reputation, breadth of products and service offerings, and production speed. We face intense competition from both smaller and larger market players who compete against us in our various markets including glass, window and aluminum manufacturing.
 
The principal methods of competition in the window and door industry are the development of long-term relationships with window and door distributors and dealers, and the retention of customers by delivering a full range of high-quality customized products on demand with short turnaround times while offering competitive pricing. The vertical integration of our operations, our geographic scope, low labor costs and economies of scale have helped our subsidiaries consolidate their leading position in Colombia and bolstered their expansion in the U.S. and other foreign markets.
 

11
--

Government Regulations
 
We are subject to extensive and varied federal, state and local government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to our relationships with our employees, public health and safety and fire codes. Additionally, certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate require that installation of doors and windows be approved by competent authorities that grant distribution licenses. Although our business and facilities are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulation, environmental regulation does not have a material impact on our operations.
 
Also, we are subject to a potential revision of the United States-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (“USCOFTA”), which allows Colombian entities to export to USA without any tariffs. Mr. Donald Trump, US President, has made public announcements about the intention to re-negotiate certain terms of free trade agreements, which could potentially implement a tariff. However, the Company can mitigate this risk by transferring the price to its consumers and diversifying its business operations.
 
Research and Development
 
During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we spent approximately $2.4 million, $2.2 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in research and development. The Company incurs in costs related to the development of new products and pays for external tests that need to be performed on our products in order to comply with strict building codes. The Company is fully permitted to commercialize hurricane windows in the Miami-Dade County, Florida, which has one of the most demanding certifications in the world of window frames.
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of 5,326 employees, none of whom is represented by a union. As of December 31, 2016, and 2015 we had a total of 5,853 employees and 5,399 employees, respectively. Most of our employees are hired through seven temporary staffing companies and are employed under one-year fixed-term employment contracts. During 2017 went through a employee reduction plan related to some projects that were delayed into 2018 since they had overhired to meet those projects. This lead to a total reduction in the work force, despite the GM&P acquisition, as GM&P subcontracts a portion of its operational work. Management believes it has good relations with our employees. We provide ongoing training programs to our employees through the self-established programs.
Company History
 
We were formed under the name “Andina Acquisition Corporation” as an exempted company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on September 21, 2011 in order to effect a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities.
 
In March, 2012, we closed our IPO of 4,200,000 units, with each unit consisting of one ordinary share and one warrant to purchase one ordinary share at an exercise price of $8.00 per share, at an offering price of $10.00 per unit, generating total gross proceeds of $42,000,000. Simultaneously with the consummation of the IPO, we consummated a private placement of 4,800,000 warrants (“private warrants”) at a price of $0.50 per warrant and, to the underwriters, options to purchase an aggregate of 900,000 units at a price of $500,100, generating total proceeds of $2,900,100. After deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and the offering expenses, the total net proceeds to us were $43,163,000 of which $42,740,000 was deposited into a trust account. The remaining proceeds of $423,000 became available to be used as working capital to provide for business, legal and accounting due diligence on prospective business combinations and continuing general and administrative expenses. The IPO was conducted pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 333-178061), that became effective on March 16, 2012.
 
From the consummation of our IPO until August 17, 2013, we were searching for a suitable target business to acquire. On August 17, 2013, we entered into an agreement and plan of reorganization, pursuant to which agreement, as amended, we acquired Tecnoglass Holding, Tecnoglass and ES as direct and indirect subsidiaries. On December 20, 2013, we held an extraordinary general meeting of our shareholders, at which our shareholders approved the Merger and other related proposals. On the same date, we closed the Merger and Tecnoglass Holding and its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries, Tecnoglass and ES, became our direct and indirect subsidiaries.
 
Tecnoglass Holding is a corporation formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands that was founded in 2014 in connection with the Merger. Tecnoglass is a corporation formed under the laws of Colombia that was founded in 1994 by Jose M. Daes, our Chief Executive Officer, and Christian T. Daes, our Chief Operating Officer. ES is a corporation formed under the laws of Colombia that was founded in 1984 by Jose M. Daes and Christian T. Daes.
 
At the closing of the Business Combination, 2,251,853 of the 4,200,000 public shares sold in our IPO were converted to cash at a conversion price of approximately $10.18 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $22.9 million of the approximately $42.7 million held in the trust account. As consideration for the Business Combination, we issued Energy Holding Corp., a holding company and sole shareholder of Tecnoglass Holding, of which former shareholders of TG and ES were the sole shareholders, an aggregate of 20,567,141 ordinary shares, or approximately 87% of the outstanding ordinary shares. Pursuant to the agreement and plan of reorganization, we also issued to Energy Holding Corp. an additional 500,000 ordinary shares upon the achievement of the specified EBITDA targets in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, 1,000,000 ordinary shares upon achievement of the specified EBITDA target in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and 1,500,000 ordinary shares upon the achievement of the specified EBITDA target in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.
 

12
--


In connection with the Business Combination, we changed our name to “Tecnoglass Inc.” We also changed our fiscal year end from February 28 to December 31 in order to coincide with the fiscal year end of Tecnoglass Holding and its subsidiaries.
 
In 2014, we established two entities in South Florida, Tecno LLC and Tecno RE, to acquire manufacturing and sales-related assets to support sales and customer service in the United States.
 
In September 2016, we completed a warrant exchange whereby each warrant holder was given the opportunity to exchange 2.5 outstanding warrants for one ordinary share. As a result of the warrant exchange, 5,479,049 warrants, or 82% of the outstanding warrants were validly tendered. As of September 30, 2016, 1,275,823 warrants remained outstanding following completion of the warrant exchange referenced above. Of these, 1,265,842 warrants were exercised prior to the December 20, 2016 expiration, resulting in the issuance of 478,218 Tecnoglass common shares. The remaining unexercised warrants expired by their own terms on December 20, 2016.
 
As part of our strategy to vertically integrate our operations, on December 2, 2016 we acquired 100% of the equity of ESW LLC, for a total purchase price of $13.5 million. The acquisition was recorded retroactively starting from the first date of common control. Instead of using fair value, the Company consolidates the financial statements of the entity acquired using the existing carrying values.
 
On March 1, 2017 the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of GM&P. The Company acquired all of the shares of GM&P for a purchase price of $35 million, of which the Company paid $6 million within the 60 days following the closing date and the remaining $29 million of the purchase price to be payable on or before May 2018 in cash, our ordinary shares or a combination of both, at our sole option.
 
Additional Information About the Company
 
We maintain websites for our subsidiaries, TG, ES and GM&P, which can be found at www.tecnoglass.com, www.energiasolarsa.com, and www.gmpglazing.com, respectively. The corporate filings of Tecnoglass Inc., including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and reports filed by our executive officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, and any amendments to those filings, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations page at investors.tecnoglass.com, which are updated as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file (or furnish in certain cases) such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and can also be found at the SEC’s website at http://sec.gov. We do not intend for information contained in either subsidiary website, including the Investor Relations pages, to be a part of this Form 10-K. Also, the public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’ public reference room at 100 F St NE, Washington D.C, 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
