Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
Overview
Yield10 Bioscience, Inc. is an agricultural bioscience company focusing on the development of new technologies to enable step-change increases in crop yield to enhance global food security. We consider 10-20 percent increases in crop yield to be step-change increases. According to a United Nations report, food production must be increased by over 70 percent in the next 35 years to feed the growing global population, which is expected to increase from 7 billion to more than 9.6 billion by 2050. During that time period, there will be a reduction in available arable land as a result of infrastructure growth and increased pressure on scarce water resources. Harvestable food production per acre and per growing season must be increased to meet this demand. At the same time, in light of the increasing focus on health and wellness, food safety and sustainability in developed countries, we anticipate a rise in demand for new varieties of food and food ingredients with improved nutritional properties. Further, concerns about food safety have led to the concept of “seed to plate” or “farm to fork,” with a focus on stringent quality control along the entire value chain. If this concept takes hold with consumers, it is likely to require identity preservation from seed to harvest and involve contract farming. This concept has been implemented in Agricultural Biotechnology ("Ag biotech"), in products such as high oleic canola and soybean. Consumer demand for identity preserved specialty ingredients is also expected to rise, and we believe that Yield10's crop yield technologies and crop gene editing platform could be useful in this emerging field.
The foundation technology of Yield10 was based on using two proprietary advanced biotechnology trait gene discovery platforms to improve fundamental crop yield through enhanced photosynthetic carbon capture and increased carbon utilization efficiency to increase seed yield. These platforms are based on the principle that plants which capture and utilize carbon more efficiently will enable more robust crops capable of increased seed yield. Yield10 is working to develop, translate and demonstrate the commercial value of a number of novel yield trait genes from these discovery platforms in major crops. We have also identified or in-licensed a number of genome editing targets for improved crop performance in several key food and feed crops, including canola, soybean, rice and corn. Included in the genome editing targets are several 
4

genes with the potential to increase seed oil content, a key economic value driver in major oilseed crops such as canola and soybean. Yield10 is currently combining the two trait gene discovery platforms to create an integrated system for identifying key plant gene combinations for modification using genome editing to improve crop performance. New tools for genome editing continue to develop at a fast pace and be deployed against known targets which for the most part are focused on changing seed or seed oil composition. However, identifying gene combinations remain an unmet need.
Yield10 Bioscience is headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and has an additional agricultural science facility with greenhouses in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.
Yield10 Bioscience was founded as Metabolix, Inc. in 1992 and originally focused on redirecting carbon flow in living systems to produce bioplastics and biobased chemicals. In 1997, Metabolix started a crop science research program with the intent to produce the microbial bioplastic polyhydroxybutyrate (“PHB”) in high concentration in the seeds of oilseed crops or in the leaves of biomass crops where it acts as an additional carbon sink or carbon store. As we made progress on our crop program, we learned that the rate of carbon supply from photosynthesis was insufficient to support both plant growth and polymer production, so we initiated a series of exploratory programs to develop new technologies to fundamentally increase the plants’ ability to fix and capture more carbon. These early research programs resulted in the establishment of our crop yield trait gene discovery platforms and the identification of a series of promising proprietary yield trait genes.
Based on encouraging early results from these gene discovery programs, we refocused our crop science efforts to yield improvement in major food and feed crops in 2015 and rebranded the effort as Yield10 Bioscience. In 2016, we sold our biopolymers assets and restructured the Company around our crop science mission. In January 2017, we completed this transition and changed the name of the company to Yield10 Bioscience, Inc. We are developing proprietary, breakthrough plant biotechnologies to improve crop productivity and seed yield based on two proprietary discovery platforms:

• | the “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops Platform,” - in which we are working to eliminate bottlenecks in plant photosynthesis and carbon metabolism by harnessing new metabolic capabilities from non-plant systems including microbes and algae, and;


• | the “T3 Platform,” - in which we have identified three powerful global regulator genes in plants which control complex regulatory networks and gene cascades resulting in step-change increases in photosynthetic carbon fixation and biomass yields.

In our work to date, our team has demonstrated step-change yield increases in Camelina and canola seed production and in switchgrass biomass production. We are currently progressing the development of our lead yield trait genes in canola, soybean, rice and corn to provide step-change crop yield solutions for enhancing global food security.
With these two platforms, we have established a series of proprietary trait genes to enhance carbon dioxide capture and fixation in both C3 and C4 photosynthetic plants for yield improvement. C3 photosynthesis, the simplest type of plant photosynthetic system, exists in most agricultural crops used for human consumption, and includes canola, soybean, rice, wheat and potato. C4 photosynthesis is a more complex system. Plants using the C4 system have evolved an additional distinctive cellular structure, in which carbon dioxide is concentrated for the main photosynthesis enzyme RUBISCO through a series of metabolic and metabolite transports known as the C4 pathway. Corn, sorghum and sugarcane are part of the C4 photosynthetic plant family. In general, C4 photosynthetic plants have inherently higher yield than plants in the C3 photosynthetic family. This difference in plant yield is a result of evolution, which has led plant scientists to consider the possibility that new genetic enhancements can be created to fundamentally improve the photosynthetic system in C3 plants.
We are currently integrating our two technology platforms into a next generation platform (“GRAIN”) with the objective of creating a predictive tool to identify combinations of plant gene modifications (“Smart Targets") for improvement of any aspect of crop performance. We envision that GRAIN will be a powerful tool for further optimizing the seed yield and seed oil content traits we currently have in development and for identifying new gene targets. Successes in Ag biotech, based mostly on innovations from the 1990’s, were achieved by introducing single microbial genes into crops to add new functionality such as herbicide tolerance or pest resistance. Over the last 20 years, the Ag industry majors have made significant investments in testing thousands of single plant genes and have generated billions of data points from these studies as well as traditional breeding programs. However, there have been very few new Ag biotech traits launched during that period indicating the need for multi-gene solutions. This conclusion is supported by the fact that domestication of modern corn from the ancient teosinte plant was due to changes in the activity of 5-6 regulatory or transcription factors genes over a period of 9,000 years. Plant scientists now have powerful genome editing tools, such as the CRISPR/Cas9 system which enable multi-gene changes to be made in major crops; the challenge is knowing what combinations of genes to edit. The 2016 corn harvest in the United States was valued at around $50 billion. The recent breakthroughs in genome editing now make 
5

significantly increasing, and perhaps doubling corn yield an achievable goal, if we knew what 5-6 genes to change. In the absence of this knowledge, however, we are left with the technically unrealistic prospect of experimentally testing every combination of genes. For example, testing just the 2,400 predicted gene regulators or transcription factors of corn with a single type of change in all possible pairs would require almost 3 million experiments. 
There is clearly an unmet need to create advanced computational tools like GRAIN for predicting the right combinations of plant genes to modify for improvement of crop performance. There are two key components in plants, metabolic pathways and gene regulators called transcription factors. We find it useful to compare the flow of carbon through a plant to the flow of traffic in a major city. Using this analogy, metabolic pathways constitute the carbon conversion "infrastructure" and transcription factors constitute the genetic “traffic” lights that direct changes in plant metabolism in response to environmental or developmental conditions. Our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” metabolic engineering platform has already proven useful in identifying a number of our C3000 series of traits, and the “T3 Platform,” based on mining transcription factor network data sets identified our C4001, C4002 and C4003 global transcription factor gene traits. These gene traits enabled us to engineer switchgrass plants with high rates of photosynthesis and increased biomass yield. We are currently repeating our work with C4001 and C4003 in rice and wheat and plan to do so in corn.
GRAIN is an integrated platform based on key elements of our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” metabolic engineering platform and our “T3” platforms. Advanced metabolic flux analysis forms the foundation of the GRAIN platform we are developing based on Yield10 scientists unique 20-plus years of experience successfully deploying advanced metabolic flux analysis to address critical bottlenecks in carbon metabolism. Plant growth at its core is a series of chemical reactions and these can be modeled to determine the best ways to optimize the yield of the targeted end product. Advanced metabolic modeling based on flux-balance analysis and enzyme reaction thermodynamics and kinetics enables us to make predictions about which reaction modifications are most likely to achieve targeted performance improvements. However, as with all modeling approaches, the tool is only useful alongside the means and the data to test it in real plants. Here Yield10 makes use of metabolic and transcriptome data generated from its high-photosynthesis, high-yield engineered plants as well as from academic publications and other public data to project optimal gene targets for modifications. By integrating the transcriptome network capabilities of the T3 Platform, we expect to be able to identify transcription factor genes whose activity profiles can be altered to optimize multiple steps in metabolic pathways or the flow of carbon in plant tissues of interest. In a crop like modern hybrid corn, which already produces vastly more seed than it needs to reproduce, our initial objective is to reduce or even eliminate the activity of the transcription factors that restrict further seed production. Accordingly, our approach is to turn down the sequence of transcription factors (or “red lights”) which block the plant from sending more carbon to the seed.
Based on elements of the GRAIN platform that we are already working on, we have identified the C4004 - C4027 series of transcription factor genes that are down-regulated in our high-photosynthesis engineered switchgrass plants as well as a number of new gene targets related to our lead C3003 yield trait. In many cases these gene targets can be modified by genome editing, opening the potential for the traits to not be regulated by USDA-APHIS, or in some cases, genes from the microbial world can be introduced to develop regulated traits. We believe our integrated GRAIN platform can be leveraged in the near term to secure research and development funding from industry partners.
We have consolidated our crop science intellectual property position with 15 patent filings in prosecution, identified additional novel gene targets for improving crop performance and yield through genetic engineering or genome editing, formed a scientific advisory board with leaders in plant science, conducted several greenhouse studies and conducted two years of Fast Field Testing of traits from our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” discovery platform. We have reported encouraging data for our lead yield trait gene, C3003 in field tests of Camelina and canola and are conducting additional studies in Camelina, canola, soybean and rice.
In 2017, we intensified our efforts to evaluate genome editing targets for improving seed yield, seed composition and/or biomass yield in commercial crops. We believe that strategies based on C3004, a trait that complements C3003, and on C3007, an oil content boosting trait that we have an option to in-license from the University of Missouri, have the potential to provide a path to commercialization based on achieving “nonregulated” status from United States Department of Agriculture - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service ("USDA-APHIS"). If this status is achieved, this could significantly reduce the time and cost of launching new yield traits. We achieved this status for a genome edited Camelina line in 2017 through a submission to USDA-APHIS. We developed this genome edited Camelina line together with our wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc. Researchers used the CRISPR genome editing tool to inactivate an enzyme expected to increase seed oil content in Camelina, a trait we have designated as C3008. This trait may have further applications when used in combination with other traits that we are developing that are expected to increase seed oil content. We are currently evaluating combinations of the genome editing targets to optimize oil content in Camelina and 
6

canola, and plan to do so in soybean with the objective of achieving non-regulated status from USDA-APHIS for additional plant lines. In addition, we are advancing research with a number of genome editing targets which could provide new strategies to increase biomass yield in forage and other crops.
In our 2017 fast field test program conducted at two sites in Canada, we tested both first and second generation versions of C3003 in Camelina as well as first generation C3003 in canola, an important North American oilseed crop. In the field tests, we monitored key agronomic and growth parameters of the plants throughout the field test and collected yield data including yield of seed per area planted, individual seed weight, and seed oil content in our transformed plants as compared to control plants. In January 2018, we reported encouraging results from our field tests of the C3003 gene in Camelina and canola. The main objectives of the studies were to evaluate the performance of C3003 in Camelina and canola using different genetic constructs, which are used to optimize when and where in the plant the gene is activated to provide the best performance. Yield10 researchers transformed plants with genetic constructs intended to optimize expression of C3003 during different stages of plant and seed development and tested these events in the field tests. The best events for second generation C3003 in Camelina produced improvements in seed yield (up to 7.7 percent), harvest index and overall agronomic performance as compared to control plants. Harvest index, the ratio of seed to biomass (leaf, stems) is a critical parameter for improving seed yield and increasing harvest index is one of the major objectives of our technologies. The best events for first generation C3003 in canola produced improvements in seed yield (up to 13.1 percent) as compared to control plants. The studies also met the objective for bulking up seed to enable further evaluation of C3003 in Camelina and canola in field tests planned for spring 2018. A new second generation construct using a different seed specific promoter was tested in the minicage plots, used for seed bulk up, and produced plants showing indications of strong agronomic performance and seed yield which we plan to explore further in our 2018 field tests.
According to the National Oilseed Processors Association, soybean is the leading North American oilseed crop. Accordingly, we accelerated deployment of both first and second generation C3003 into soybean in 2016 and through a collaborator generated early greenhouse data in late 2017. Preliminary observations with a small number of lines suggest that results for C3003 previously obtained in Camelina and canola are translating into soybean. Consistent with previous results, first generation C3003 produced seeds with lower individual weight while typical individual seed weight was observed with second generation C3003 in soybean. Further, our greenhouse results show that there is an increase in branching in the plants for some of the events tested. We believe this is significant because more branching provides more sites on the soybean plant for seed pods to develop. We expect additional development work will continue in soybean during 2018.
In 2017, we granted a non-exclusive research license to Monsanto Company to evaluate our novel C3003 and C3004 yield traits in soybean. Under the license, Monsanto has the non-exclusive right to begin work with C3003 in its soybean program as a strategy to improve seed yield. Monsanto also may conduct research with our C3004 yield trait, a trait accessible through genome editing, in combination with C3003 to evaluate the effect of the combination to improve seed yield in soybean.
Results from our studies with C3003 to date suggest that it may provide an entirely new strategy to improve seed yield in oilseeds and other C3 photosynthetic crops by bringing in unique metabolic functionality from non-plant systems. We plan to continue to generate data on C3003 in field tests and greenhouse studies in 2018.
Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc., signed a two-year collaboration with the National Research Council of Canada in 2017 to improve yield and drought tolerance in wheat. The collaboration will focus on new trait discovery in wheat using our T3 Platform technology. Under the collaboration, we will provide access to our proprietary C4000 series of traits, which include global regulatory genes, or global transcription factors (“GTFs”). We have shown that these GTFs have the potential to significantly increase photosynthesis and yield in certain crops. Research with the C4000 series of traits will allow the discovery of additional gene targets in wheat that could enhance the yield and/or drought tolerance of the crop. Wheat is a major global staple food crop where significant yield increases could play a major role in feeding the world.
In 2017, we were selected as a subawardee on a new U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Grant to conduct research aimed at boosting oilseed yield in Camelina. The 5-year, $10 million grant, which was recently awarded to Michigan State University (MSU) will be led by MSU and will involve a multidisciplinary team of researchers from MSU, North Carolina State University and Yield10 Bioscience as the industry partner. Under the grant, the team of scientists will integrate metabolic and gene expression models to predict in detail the gene combinations and pathways used by the Camelina plant to convert sucrose, the primary product of photosynthesis, into oil. Our work under the award will involve the use of our T3 gene discovery platform to identify novel global regulatory genes that are designed to increase oil and seed yield. The identification of new genetic targets to boost seed yield in Camelina may allow for the broader cultivation of Camelina for commercial use, and may have further application to other oilseed crops, such as canola and soybean.
7

Crop yield is the primary driver of the agriculture value chain. Yield can make the difference between a profitable season and losses for growers. As such, technologies to protect crop yield or increase it are the primary determinant of the seed buying decision by growers at the start of the season. This in turn determines both revenue and market share for the major seed players. Yield10’s goal is to discover, optimize and translate our yield trait gene innovations into major food and feed crops and demonstrate the economic value to growers and seed companies. In all cases our trait genes will be introduced using genetic engineering technologies either to introduce new genes, to introduce additional copies of genes from the same crop species with modified regulatory sequences from that crop species or by using genome editing technologies to reduce or eliminate the function of specific plant gene targets in individual crops. The method by which we deploy our yield trait genes has significant regulatory implications, which, in turn can affect the timelines and cost of their commercialization. We intend to create high-value assets in the form of proprietary yield gene technologies and to de-risk these assets by progressing them along the path to commercial development with increasingly larger scale field tests and multi-site field trials in major crops. We are deploying our yield trait genes into canola, soybean and corn. We are engineering these traits into the major crops with the goal that they will be suitable for the regulatory approval process and in crop varieties (germplasm) such that our traits can be readily introduced into the industry’s elite crop lines by plant breeding.
The Unmet Need: Global Population Growth Outpacing Anticipated Global Food Supply
Yield10 is targeting a critical unmet need in agriculture based on the future disconnect between agricultural supply and the growing global population. According to a United Nations study, the global population is expected to exceed 9.6 billion people by 2050 and therefore there is a need to increase global food production to meet this demand. This will need to be achieved in the face of increased pressure on land and water resources in addition to increasingly variable weather patterns. Solving this problem is a major global challenge requiring new crop innovation and technologies to fundamentally enhance crop productivity.
The Yield Gap
According to several studies described in an article published in the Public Library of Science in 2013, crop yields may no longer be increasing in different regions of the globe, and current rates of crop yield increase are expected to fall significantly behind the levels needed to meet the demand for global food production. The researchers found that the top four global crops - maize (corn), rice, wheat and soybean - are currently witnessing average yield improvements of only between 0.9 to 1.6 percent per year, far slower than the required rates to double their production by 2050 solely from incremental yield gains. At these rates, global production of maize, rice, wheat and soybean crops may be required to increase by about 67 percent, 42 percent, 38 percent and 55 percent, respectively, by 2050, in order to meet the anticipated increase in demand for food production caused by population growth. For corn and soybean, the benefits of currently available Genetic Modification ("GM") traits were already factored into the data cited in the studies referenced above. The yield increases needed to meet the demands of the growing global population show that a significant “yield gap” exists for each of the crops evaluated in the study.
Yield10 is focused on addressing the yield gap for major crops by utilizing modern biotechnology strategies, including metabolic engineering (synthetic biology approaches) to “build better plants,” in which technology is deployed to make the process of photosynthesis within plants more efficient at capturing atmospheric carbon and depositing that carbon in seed or biomass, with the effect of improving the overall yield of important food crops. Enhancement of the photosynthetic capacity of major crops is fundamentally important to crop science and an essential first step to increase the seed and/or biomass yield of plants and, therefore, food production. We have been working in the area of increasing photosynthetic carbon capture and crop yield technologies since 2012. As a result, we have identified a number of exciting genes for increasing yield or improving crop performance.
Health and Wellness, Food Safety and Sustainability
At the same time, in light of the increasing focus on health and wellness, food safety and sustainability in developed countries, we anticipate a rise in demand for new varieties of food and food ingredients with improved nutritional properties. Further, concerns about food safety have led to the concept of "seed to plate," with a focus on stringent quality control along the entire value chain. If this concept takes hold with consumers, it is likely to require identity preservation from seed to harvest and involve contract farming. This concept is currently being implemented in Ag biotech, in both canola and soybean which have been modified to alter the composition of the oil produced. High oleic canola and soybean oils are being marketed as a "healthier" approach which will typify this space where the value driver is the ability to make marketing claims directly to the consumer. Consumer demand to be able to identify preserved specialty ingredients is expected to rise, and we believe that Yield10's crop yield technologies and crop gene editing targets could be useful in this emerging field. Yield10 
8

believes that these types of small acreage specialty crops have the potential for a broader range of partner prospects along the entire value chain.
Business Strategy
Our goal is to build a successful agricultural biotechnology company centered on demonstrating the value of our yield traits in major food and feed crops. We have identified and are evaluating novel yield trait genes that we have discovered using our two technology platforms. We believe we have extensive and unique metabolic engineering capabilities that can be deployed to help address the growing global yield gap in food and feed crops. As the primary driver of financial returns each season, crop yield is the key decision variable for farmers in making seed buying decisions, and as a result is critical to the seed industry. Improvements in yield to the levels targeted by Yield10, for example 10-20 percent increases, can be expected to generate significant value to the seed and crop industry. For example, Yield10 is targeting an approximately 20 percent increase in canola and soybean yields, which, if successfully deployed across North American acreage, would result in annual incremental crop value of $10 billion. By ultimately increasing the output of major food and feed crops and potentially reducing strains on scarce natural resources, we believe that Yield10’s technologies will also contribute to addressing global food security.
Recognizing the highly concentrated nature of the seed business, the prevalence of cross-licensing of traits, and the need to stack multiple crop traits in elite seed germplasm to provide the best options for farmers for large acreage commodity crops, Yield10 does not expect to become an integrated seed company. The current major seed players dominate the GM crop space based largely on the early technology innovations that resulted in herbicide and pest resistance traits and have a very successful operating track record in the sector. Therefore, rather than replicating the downstream elements of these operations and developing our own regulatory, crop breeding or seed production capabilities, we intend to seek industry collaborations and partnerships to leverage these existing core competencies of the current seed industry. Yield10 will focus on its core competency, which is breakthrough science and technology innovation.
The type of collaborations and partnerships we seek will depend on the specific anticipated path to market for the crop. For large acreage GM crops including canola, soybean and corn, we plan to develop proof points for our yield traits as a basis for licensing to the Ag majors with a focus on capturing downstream value. According to industry estimates, the timeline from discovery to full commercialization of a GM trait in a commodity crop can be up to 13 years at a cost of up to $130 million. Our C3003 yield trait is an algal gene and will be regulated as a GM trait. As we are in the construct optimization/event selection stage, we are about half way along the anticipated development timeline for C3003. Our strategy is to make it attractive for the Ag majors to invest financial and technical resources to introduce our traits into their elite germplasm for event selection and evaluation. In 2017, we signed a non-exclusive research license with Monsanto Company to test C3003 and C3004 in soybean. We may sign additional non-exclusive research licenses on a crop by crop basis at minimal cost, allowing the licensees to invest their resources on progressing the trait. Our focus is on securing a share of the upside value of our traits when we finalize the economic terms of license agreements at the point where the value of the trait is well understood.
For small acreage specialty oil crops, we believe we can leverage our unique skill set to add value to the development of specialty oils focused on nutrition and aquaculture feed. In general, these crops cost more to produce because of the unique supply chain needed to ensure identity preservation for the crop from seed planting through final product. In this area, there may be opportunities for establishing partnerships and license agreements with consumer facing companies in the food and feed sector. Our high oil content traits developed through genome editing may have shorter timelines to commercialization (3-6 years) if deployed in specialty oil crops. We are at an early stage of developing our strategy in this area but believe it may have considerable potential for Yield10.
Yield10 plans to build on its core strengths bringing new technology approaches to exploit an innovation gap in the agricultural biotechnology space that exists due to reduced investment in basic research and development resulting from the ongoing consolidation and restructuring in the agricultural sector. Yield10’s mission is to translate and optimize our step-change yield trait innovations in the major food and feed crops, and demonstrate their economic value to farmers and seed companies. We intend to create high-value assets in the form of proprietary yield trait gene technologies and to de-risk these assets by progressing them along the path to commercial development with increasingly larger scale field tests and multi-site field trials in major crops. We are currently deploying our yield trait genes into canola, soybean, rice, wheat and corn, by designing and progressing genetically engineered events suitable for the regulatory approval process which can be readily bred into the industry’s elite crop lines by plant breeding. We expect the customers for Yield10’s innovations to be the large and mid-size agricultural companies that would either license or acquire rights to Yield10’s yield trait genes and incorporate them into their proprietary commercial crop lines for subsequent commercialization.
9

We are focused on identifying and developing technologies that will enable us to produce step-change improvements to crop yield.
Yield10 is targeting a critical unmet need in agriculture based on the anticipated disconnect between agricultural supply and the growing global population. Food production must be increased by over 70 percent in the next 35 years to feed the growing global population, which is expected to increase from 7 billion to more than 9.6 billion by 2050. Global climate change is also resulting in regional shifts to historical growing conditions. Given the projection for population growth, recent studies show a “yield gap” for major food and feed crops that studies show cannot be addressed by incremental improvements to yield brought about by traditional plant breeding and existing GM traits. Current GM traits in the industry are based primarily on using microbial-sourced genes to impart yield protection through herbicide, pest, disease and even drought resistance, whereas Yield10 is focused on increasing fundamental crop yield through enhanced carbon capture and utilization.
Yield10 is fundamentally focused on “building better plants” based on using genetic engineering technologies to deploy new yield trait genes that improve the efficiency of photosynthesis and the efficiency of converting fixed carbon to seed and/or introducing targeted genetic changes in the plant genome that allow the plant to make more seed or biomass.
Our History
We have a significant track record and expertise in the metabolic engineering of microbes and have made significant progress translating this capability to plants.
As part of the legacy biopolymers and biobased chemicals business of our predecessor company Metabolix, our research team developed an advanced metabolic engineering capability to alter key biochemical pathways and redirect the flow of carbon metabolic intermediates in microbes resulting in the production of the biomaterial polyhydroxyalkanoate or PHA, at a level of more than 80 to 90 percent by weight of microbial cells that normally did not produce any PHA. Through our experience producing PHA in plants we have demonstrated that our experience with re-engineering the metabolism of microbes can be translated to “building better plants.” In 1997, Metabolix initiated a crop science research program to produce renewable bioplastics and chemicals from agricultural crops. Historically, these efforts were focused on producing PHB, a microbial carbon storage biopolymer, in high concentration in the seeds of oilseed crops or in the leaves of biomass crops such as switchgrass.
As we made progress on producing PHB in plants, we learned that basic carbon supply from photosynthesis was a bottleneck. To address this carbon shortfall, we began developing new metabolic engineering and bioinformatics approaches to enhancing basic crop photosynthetic carbon capture. Discoveries from these two approaches became the foundation of our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” and “T3 Platform” crop trait discovery platforms, respectively. We also began building intellectual property on novel yield trait gene technologies discovered in these programs. Photosynthesis is the most important biological process responsible for global food production. For example, according to the USDA, the output of U.S. farms contributed $177 billion, or one percent, to GDP in 2014. Improving the photosynthetic capacity of plants is an essential first step to increase the performance of crops to increase seed and/or biomass yield and, therefore, food production. We must develop plants which on a per acre basis during the growing season fix more carbon and ultimately target that additional fixed carbon to seed. Key to achieving this is increasing the rate of net photosynthetic carbon capture. Once a plant has fixed carbon, that fixed carbon can be directed to three different places in the plant: it can be used to make roots, leaf and stem tissue of biomass, used for seed or it can be released again as CO2 through normal metabolic processes.
Since 2015, we have made significant progress applying our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” platform to plants. Using this technology platform, which we established as a result of a series of government funded internal programs and external academic collaborations, we have developed metabolic engineering strategies using microbial genes to introduce new functionality into plants to increase photosynthesis by making key metabolic pathways in plants more efficient, and to eliminate bottlenecks to efficient carbon usage. This approach is similar to what has been the bedrock of the agricultural biotech seed industry, the introduction of genes from non-plant systems to enable new functionality in the form of herbicide, pest resistance and drought tolerance. Our approaches led not only to the identification of novel yield trait genes but also encouraging early yield data from field studies with our lead yield trait gene in the industrial oilseed Camelina.
10

Our Approach
We have two unique, proprietary technology platforms for identifying novel yield trait genes.
Our unique approach consists of two core technology platforms. The first is based on our 30 years of experience optimizing the flow of carbon intermediates in living systems and is called the “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops.” Using this approach and working with our partners in academia, Yield10 has demonstrated major step-changes in seed yield in the industrial oilseed Camelina. We currently have four novel trait genes impacting seed yield, which we refer to as the C3003 series of traits, and we are progressing our lead yield trait gene C3003 in our key crop targets canola, soybean and corn. Recently, we reported seed yield increases of up to 23% in early field tests conducted in 2016 with Camelina and up to 13% in early field tests conducted in 2017 with canola. 
In our second platform, the “T3 Platform,” we developed a proprietary computational process to identify global transcription factor (GTF) genes, or master switches, which algorithms predicted could both up-regulate or down-regulate multiple gene cascades with the potential for increasing photosynthesis, reducing bottlenecks in central metabolism and positively impacting plant and biomass yield. We have tested the three lead gene targets experimentally and have shown that they produced average increases of over 40 percent in photosynthetic carbon fixation, flow of carbon through central metabolism and biomass levels in our experiments with switchgrass. In some cases the biomass yield has been increased up to 75-100 percent in preliminary greenhouse tests, a notable finding given that switchgrass is a high yielding C4 photosynthetic crop. Although it is a very useful model for C4 photosynthesis plants, switchgrass is not a food crop, so we identified the corresponding genes in major food crops including our key targets, rice and corn, and work continues in this area. 
Our work with the Smart Carbon Grid for Crops and the T3 Platform has identified promising potential targets for genome editing. We believe that these approaches may be subject to less regulatory complexity in the U.S. during development and along the path to commercialization, and may provide opportunities for licensing.
Genome editing techniques, including CRISPR, which involve making small targeted changes to the DNA of a target organism, have been of interest to the agricultural biotechnology industry because this approach is believed to have the potential to significantly reduce development costs and regulatory timelines for crop trait development and market introduction. Announcements from DuPont and USDA-APHIS regarding a clarification on the regulatory path for a genetically edited corn line indicated that this line will not be subject to regulations typically used for genetically modified crops on the basis that while the plant DNA was edited, the final plant did not contain any remaining foreign DNA (i.e. DNA sequences not from the plant being engineered) from the procedure used to edit the plant. This industry example suggests that crops that are genome edited may not be subject to certain GMO regulations in the U.S., an outcome supported by recent developments in the USDA APHIS review of the current regulatory process for crops made using genetic engineering. This has opened the potential for Yield10 to exploit a second tier of novel traits addressable with genome editing. The challenge now for the agricultural biotechnology sector will be to identify gene targets for genome editing which can generate economic value.
Yield10 has identified from its internal discovery platforms and in-licensed through academic collaborations a number of gene targets for genome editing in crops. In the course of our work, we have introduced genes coding for new metabolic pathway enzymes or global transcription factors producing high yield lines with higher rates of photosynthetic carbon fixation. We are studying our high yield plants at the molecular level using advances in high throughput analytical systems at the whole genome level to look at what happens to every other gene in the plant as a result of the changes we have engineered in, focused specifically on which native plant genes are turned on or off. Genes whose activity is turned on in the high yield lines are worth further study on their own and genes whose activity is turned off are interesting candidates for genome editing. This type of molecular analysis of the high yielding lines where the flow of carbon is higher has given us insights into key steps to target for further improvement. We recently made progress deploying genome editing technology based on our C3008 trait in Camelina, which in 2017 was deemed non-regulated by USDA-APHIS. Plants that are not regulated by USDA-APHIS may be subject to regulation by FDA or EPA. We expect to increase our level of effort in this area in other crops, particularly canola, over the course of 2018, eventually expanding into soybean, rice and corn. We believe our genome editing targets as well as the improved crops we develop using this approach may enable us to form collaborations or license arrangements with a broader set of commercial partners and bring these forward into development in the near-term.
We plan to use any revenues we generate from license agreements around our genome editing targets to support our ongoing research and development efforts to enable step-changes in crop yield.
11

We are developing the Camelina Fast Field Test model system to evaluate and de-risk novel yield trait genes.
One of the challenges the agricultural industry has faced over the years is translating early crop science discovery into value generating traits. In part this is because results from greenhouse studies in model plants have not translated well into field results in major crops. This is also in part because the plants used for discovery research have not been suitable for studies in the field and are not representative of the advanced seed or crop varieties (germplasm) used in commercial production, which have been subject to decades of intensive breeding to improve yield. Translating success when introducing non-plant genes into major crops has been very successful and the current biotech seed sector, which accounted for 457 million acres of crops worldwide in 2016, is based on using microbial genes in plants. The long timelines to progress early discoveries successfully into major crops and generate field data adds to the challenge.
For these reasons, Yield10 has put in place a process we call “Fast Field Testing” based on our Camelina oilseed platform. We believe that over time this will become a valuable tool in the trait discovery to translation effort. Camelina is an industrial oilseed well-suited to field trials, and we believe it is a good model for identifying promising new yield traits for canola and soybean. It is also very fast to modify and develop genetically stable seed sufficient for field planting. Ideally, we hope to be able to progress from trait identification to field planting in about 12 months. Our process is to identify trait genes of interest in Camelina and immediately begin putting them into canola and soybean, where the timelines to transform plants and generate field data are much longer. We can then progress the Fast Field Testing in Camelina and generate field data and a complete molecular analysis of plant material from the field. These results and data can then be used to inform how we progress the previously transformed canola and soybean.
We believe that this will provide the opportunity for go-no-go decisions in some cases and in other cases allow us to update our approach based on the results of our Fast Field Testing in Camelina. For example with the longer development timelines needed to get canola and soybean ready for field testing, we expect to initiate additional modifications earlier in these crops, having identified the potential to further improve the outcome based on the results of our Fast Field Testing in Camelina.
In our 2017 field test program, we tested both first and second generation versions of C3003 in Camelina, and we also tested first generation C3003 in canola, an important North American oilseed crop. Overall, our findings in canola for first generation C3003 mirror closely our observations of the trait in Camelina, underscoring the value of Camelina as a predictive system for understanding the performance of our novel yield traits in development. 
We are using our Camelina Field Test model system to de-risk and accelerate the demonstration of the trait gene value in major crops. As a particular trait is de-risked there is the potential for inflection points in value. If we can establish a strong correlation between the results from the Camelina system with future field data first from canola and then with soybean, then we may be able to leverage this to enter partnership and licensing discussions earlier while preserving the opportunity to capture a meaningful share of the upside value.
If results of testing new yield traits in our Camelina Fast Field Testing model are shown to be predictive of results that can be obtained in other C3 crops, we may be able to accelerate translation of new traits into important food and feed crops.
We developed our Camelina Fast Field Testing model as a system to develop and optimize yield traits based on novel metabolic pathways. We have significant expertise in the genetic transformation and analysis of Camelina. We believe that if we can show that the results we obtain for potential yield traits in Camelina are directionally predictive for the results we obtain in other oilseed and C3 crops, then we will be able to use the system to effectively screen for novel traits and accelerate their deployment into additional crops having the C3 photosynthetic system, including canola, soybean, rice and wheat. For this reason, our Camelina Fast Field testing system may prove to be a valuable tool for novel yield trait discovery facilitating translation into commercially important crops.
Our Oilseed Operation based in Canada provides us with unique capabilities in the development of oilseed crops.
We established our oilseeds subsidiary in Canada in 2010 to produce robust oilseed germplasm with engineered value-added traits for commercial crop production in western North America. Our oilseeds team is based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, with laboratories in the National Research Council (NRC) - Saskatoon facility and commercial greenhouse and laboratory facilities at nearby Innovation Place. Our team has developed and implemented technology to improve and accelerate engineering and trait evaluation of Camelina and canola. The team also plays a key role in designing and conducting greenhouse and field tests required to effectively evaluate novel yield traits.
12

We have established a lean organizational footprint which is capable of evaluating our initial novel yield traits in greenhouse and field tests while maintaining efficient use of cash resources.
As of December 31, 2017, we had 20 full-time employees, with the majority directly involved with our research and development activities. We believe that our organizational capabilities are aligned with our research priorities and are complemented by our use of third party infrastructure and certain service providers. With this approach we can leverage third party infrastructure and capability without having to spend the time and capital needed to recreate them in-house. This will allow us to focus our limited resources on deploying our core strengths against our key development goals. We expect to grow our research and development operations over time commensurate with building value in our business and advancing our traits through development while at the same time tightly managing overhead costs.
We have established a Scientific Advisory Board which provide us with opportunities to access government grant revenue to support our research as well as key intellectual property.
Yield10 has pursued academic collaborations that have led to the discovery of novel yield trait genes. Researcher Danny Schnell, Ph.D. discovered the C3003 trait in an ARPA-e funded collaborative project at the University of Massachusetts in which Yield10 was a partner. In 2015, Prof. Schnell moved to Michigan State University where he is Chairperson, Department of Plant Biology and remains a collaborator on C3003. Heike Sederoff, Ph.D. Professor, Department of Plant and Microbial Biology at North Carolina State University developed the C3004 and C3005 traits with ARPA-e funding which Yield10 is now progressing under a license agreement. Both Dr. Schnell and Dr. Sederoff are members of our Scientific Advisory Board. In early 2017, Yield10 announced taking an option to a global license agreement from the University of Missouri for advanced technology to boost oil content in oilseed crops. This license covers two gene targets, including C3007, which are based on the recent discovery of a key regulatory mechanism controlling oil production in oilseed crops which can be used to increase oil content. Oil content is the key economic driver in crops such as canola, sunflower and safflower. We plan to exercise this option and in-license the technology in 2018. Dr. Jay J. Thelen, Ph.D., Professor of Biochemistry at University of Missouri, who discovered this new mechanism, became a member of our Scientic Advisory Board in early 2018.
We plan to seek U.S. and Canadian government grants to support our research and development goals.
Yield10 has been awarded grants over the last several years supporting research on strategies to improve the efficiency of photosynthesis,increase seed oil content, identify novel yield traits and test these novel traits in Camelina. This work is valuable because traits developed in Camelina have the potential to be developed and deployed in other oilseed crops. For example, in 2017, we were selected as a subawardee on a new U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) grant let by MSU that is expected to commence during the Company's first quarter of 2018 to conduct research aimed at boosting oilseed yield in Camelina. We plan to continue to pursue government grants to defray research costs associated with our research and development activities.
We plan to deploy our novel yield trait genes to generate proof points across a range of crops.
Current biotech-generated crop protection traits such as “Roundup Ready” and insect resistance are deployed broadly in the Americas in the canola, soybean and corn crops. For novel yield trait genes, such as C3003, we envision deployment of the trait in C3 photosynthetic oilseed crops such as Camelina, canola and soybean and potentially in other C3 crops such as rice, alfalfa, cotton, potato and wheat. We are currently testing C3003 and C4003 in rice where genetically modified plants have not yet been widely introduced commercially. We also believe there is an opportunity to deploy our novel yield traits into existing GM crops as “stacked traits” included in branded seeds marketed and sold to farmers. “Stacked traits” refers to the practice of adding multiple biotech traits to an elite plant line as a strategy to further increase value.
Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc. signed a two-year collaboration with the National Research Council of Canada in 2017 to improve yield and drought tolerance in wheat. The collaboration will focus on new trait discovery in wheat using our T3 Platform technology. Under the collaboration, we will provide access to our proprietary C4000 series of traits, which include global regulatory genes, or global transcription factors (“GTFs”). We have shown that these GTFs have the potential to significantly increase photosynthesis and yield in certain crops. Research with the C4000 series of traits will allow the discovery of additional gene targets in wheat that could enhance the yield and/or drought tolerance of the crop. Wheat is a major global staple food crop where significant yield increases could play a major role in feeding the world.
In addition, we view our genome editing targets as a complement to plant breeding techniques and plan to test our genome editing targets in oilseed crops, as well as in rice, corn and forage crops as a way to improve seed yield and/or biomass and generate opportunities for licensing or collaboration with established industry partners.
13

We believe our business model will allow us to capture value for our discoveries and provide a path to commercialization for important new yield traits for major crops.
We are positioning Yield10 as a discovery company whereby we will work to advance our own developments as well as form business alliances to progress our traits through development and early commercialization. Our goal is to capture an attractive share of the added economic value resulting from the deployment of our trait genes and technologies in key crops. We are currently working on the development and deployment of our trait genes into canola, soybean, rice and corn, an approach facilitated by the expiration of much of the early foundation patents in the agricultural biotechnology sector, and one of our key objectives in that regard is to demonstrate commercial proof points through multi-site field tests. Yield10 has a number of opportunities and models for value capture including partnering or licensing with established agricultural industry players. Key to our strategy is to retain, where practical, control of timelines and maximize, where possible, the opportunity for value creation and optionality around future exit strategies.
In 2017 we granted a non-exclusive global research license to Monsanto Company to evaluate our novel yield traits C3003 and C3004 in soybean. Under the license, Monsanto plans to research both traits in its soybean platform. Monsanto is a leader in the development and commercialization of GM soybean seed. This license provides a market leader in biotech seed with the opportunity to test our traits and develop data at its own expense; at any time during the term, they have the option to negotiate a broader agreement with us. At the same time, we have the right to sign licenses with other companies for C3003 in soybean or other traits. This structure allows us the flexibility to expand the testing of the trait with investment by another party and to potentially enter negotiations for a development and commercial license when the value of the trait is better understood. In 2018, we plan to explore additional opportunities to expand the testing of our traits through arrangements with other companies. 
Technology Platforms
In the last decade there has been a dramatic expansion of new genetic engineering and systems biology tools: genomics data; metabolic engineering; high-throughput analytical tools, including whole organism gene expression analysis and metabolomics, and powerful genome editing technologies. At Yield10 we plan to build value by leveraging genome editing targets for revenue generation in the near-term while we independently work to demonstrate the economic value of our transformative genetic engineering based yield breakthroughs in the longer term. The recent expiration of early blocking patents on plant genetic engineering means we can now be more effective in research and development, leverage third party service providers and independently drive key proof points in major commercial crops such as canola, soybean and corn while focusing our resources on our core strengths. Yield10 is focused on increasing the inherent yield of major food and feed crops. With regard to forming collaborations, we recognize there are considerable headwinds to overcome in this sector, including industry skepticism based on disappointing outcomes from major investments made screening large numbers of single crop genes. This has resulted in a challenging environment for early crop innovations prior to demonstration of key proof points in commercial crops. Our goal is to “build better plants” which requires new approaches and innovation and in our view will most likely involve gene combinations and/or multi-gene systems.
Increasing crop yield is a complex two-step carbon optimization problem. Harvested seed is mostly carbon fixed from carbon dioxide in the air by photosynthesis with oxygen coming from water in the soil and smaller amounts of nitrogen and phosphate both of which are applied as fertilizer. To achieve increased yield, the rate at which crops can fix carbon has to be increased. Based on our experience optimizing carbon flow in living systems, we know that increasing seed yield will likely require multiple trait genes to increase carbon fixation by photosynthesis at the front-end and direct the increased fixed carbon to the seed. One analogy would be the fact that simply filling the gas tank in a car does not make it go faster. If successful in increasing photosynthesis, we expect to reach metabolic bottlenecks downstream, some of which will likely prevent some of the additional fixed carbon from reaching the seed. However, with new analytical tools available we expect to be able to identify bottlenecks and develop solutions to achieve our targeted outcomes, step-change increases in seed yield. This leads to our theme of enhanced carbon capture from photosynthesis and targeted carbon deposition to seed.
Plants can be categorized generally into two different groups based on their system of photosynthesis. C3 photosynthesis, the simplest type of plant photosynthetic system, exists in most agricultural crops used for human consumption, and includes canola, soybean, rice, wheat and potato. C4 photosynthesis is a more complex system. Plants using the C4 system have evolved an additional distinctive cellular structure, in which carbon dioxide is concentrated for the main photosynthesis enzyme RUBISCO through a series of metabolic and metabolite transports known as the C4 pathway. Corn and sugarcane are part of the C4 photosynthetic plant family. In general, C4 photosynthetic plants have up to five times inherently higher plant yield than plants in the C3 photosynthetic family. This difference in plant yield is a result of evolution, 
14

which has led plant scientists to consider the possibility that new genetic enhancements can be created to fundamentally improve the photosynthetic system in C3 plants.
Smart Carbon Grid for Crops Technology Platform
Yield10 is leveraging over a decade of metabolic engineering experience to optimize photosynthetic carbon capture and utilization in plant systems, which is critical to increasing seed yield. The “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” is an advanced metabolic engineering platform that we believe has the potential to address well known metabolic limitations in crops and in C3 crops in particular. Similar to the electric grid where much of the investment made to generate the power is lost in the distribution system, plants having the C3 photosynthetic system are similar in that they lose over half the carbon the grower has paid to fix in input costs due to metabolic inefficiencies. We plan to mirror an approach taken by many of the current herbicide and pest resistance GM traits where genes from non-plant sources were used successfully to impart new functionality to crops. In our case, we are exploiting non-plant genes such as genes from microbial or algal sources to fix or reduce the impact of well-understood carbon capture metabolic pathway limitations in C3 crops. For example, photorespiration is a wasteful side reaction or carbon capture inefficiency in crops having the C3 photosynthetic system which represent approximately 70 percent of the food consumed by humans and include wheat, rice, soybean, canola and potato. We believe impacting photorespiration should lead to improved net carbon fixation from photosynthesis and as a result, we would expect to see step-change increases in seed yield.
To illustrate the value creation potential, yield loss in C3 crops due to photorespiration was recently quantified in a paper published in the Annual Review of Plant Biology. The authors estimated that yield in U.S. soybean crops is reduced by 36 percent and the yield in U.S. wheat crops is reduced by 20 percent due to photorespiration. They also estimated that achieving a five percent reduction of photorespiration in soybean and wheat in the U.S. would add approximately $500 million per year of value. Some models suggest that photosynthesis could improve by 12 to 55 percent in the absence of photorespiration. Therefore, photorespiration has been a major topic in plant science and researchers have employed multiple strategies in attempts to reduce photorespiration in C3 plants as a means to improve yield.
Impacting photorespiration is one of the key targets of our Smart Carbon Grid for Crops technology platform. This platform is an innovative, systems based approach to boost yield by increasing the amount of carbon fixed by photosynthesis and targeting the increased carbon to harvestable seed. Our lead trait, C3003, has been shown to enhance carbon fixation and seed yield in the oilseed Camelina where it impacts photorespiration. C3003 is a scientific discovery made in one of our academic collaborations and Yield10 has exclusive rights to this technology. While our collaborator continues to work on characterizing the mechanism of this yield trait gene, current data suggests C3003 is a very unique gene that impacts photorespiration in an unexpected manner. New science also represents a key aspect of de-risking our technologies. If the science provides new insights or addresses a well-defined bottleneck in a key limiting pathway common to a large number of crops, then the expectations for broadly translating initial results should be higher. We are excited about the prospects of C3003 in reducing the well-known yield losses that occur through photorespiration in C3 crops. We are currently studying C3003’s effect in the food crops canola, soybean and rice. We know C3003 has increased the rate of photosynthetic carbon fixation in our Camelina plants and we have been able to study these plants at the molecular level. Consistent with our initial hypothesis that downstream bottlenecks can be identified, we have found that in high yielding plants expressing C3003, the expression of other genes, including our C3004 trait gene is changed. We believe the C3004 trait gene is involved in controlling the flow of fixed carbon to seed as part of the plants natural regulatory system. It is well known that the flow of carbon in plants is tightly controlled and we believe our approach to engineering the C3004 gene using genome editing has the potential to remove one of these control points and can be combined with the C3003 trait gene to further increase yield beyond what can be achieved with C3003 alone.
T3 Platform and Plant Targets for Genome Editing
In crops having the evolutionary advanced, more efficient C4 photosynthetic system, including corn, sugarcane and sorghum, the yield is already several-fold higher than in C3 crops. In this case, the hurdle to accomplish step-change increases in seed yield is higher as these crops are already more metabolically efficient. Leveraging the industry’s significant investment in crop genomics research over the last 20 years, we developed the “T3 platform,” which is an algorithm-based approach to “big data” mining of publicly available genomics data sets. We focused not on individual genes but on specific gene expression patterns. Gene expression patterns tell the researcher which genes are turned on and off under different growth conditions. With the T3 platform we wanted to identify and focus our activities on a small number of very important plant genes. Using this approach we were able to identify and select novel genes, which could function as global regulators or master switches to control cascades of other genes and metabolic systems. The strategy was to use the T3 platform to significantly narrow the number of candidate genes to be tested and then test them experimentally in our high throughput 
15

gene transformation platform in our C4 photosynthetic crop model system, switchgrass. We validated the T3 platform approach by verifying with experimental results the positive yield impact of the three gene targets we identified computationally, an exceptional hit rate. These three yield genes, C4001, C4002 and C4003, significantly increased photosynthetic carbon capture and biomass production in our switchgrass plants. In this case our early experiments have been successful in demonstrating the potential to increase the rate of carbon fixation even in a high yielding C4 crop.
We believe Yield10 is in a unique position to expand our learning and discover additional gene targets, or genes that need to be modulated, to optimize the flow of carbon to seed in these plants and have made considerable progress in this regard. Molecular analysis of high yielding plants expressing the global transcription factors has allowed the identification of 71 downstream transcription factors that are differentially expressed in the high yielding lines and are themselves targets for genetic manipulation. The expression of some of these genes is down regulated in the high yielding plants making them exciting targets for genome editing through well-known approaches such as CRISPR. We are beginning to validate these second generation gene targets in switchgrass and have thus far validated the predicted role of the first three genes. We know the industry has struggled to deploy downstream transcription factors to improve crops particularly in hybrid corn. However, we are optimistic that we will be more successful introducing our global regulator genes given the impact we saw in our experiments, and we believe genome edited traits, particularly simple gene deletions, will be significantly easier to implement and translate across all varieties of a crop.
Integrating the Smart Carbon Grid and T3 Platform to Identify Plant Targets for Genome Editing
We are currently integrating our two technology platforms into a next generation platform (“GRAIN”) with the objective of creating a predictive tool to identify combinations of plant gene modifications (“Smart Targets") for improvement of any aspect of crop performance. We envision that GRAIN will be a powerful tool for further optimizing the seed yield and seed oil content traits we currently have in development and for identifying new gene targets. Successes in Ag biotech, based mostly on innovations from the 1990’s were achieved by introducing single microbial genes into crops to add new functionality such as herbicide tolerance or pest resistance. Over the last 20 years, the Ag industry majors have made significant investments in testing thousands of single plant genes and have generated billions of data points from these studies as well as traditional breeding programs. However, there have been very few new Ag biotech traits launched during that period indicating the need for multi-gene solutions. This conclusion is supported by, the fact that domestication of modern corn from the ancient teosinte plant was due to changes in the activity of 5-6 regulatory or transcription factors genes over a period of 9000 years. Plant scientists now have powerful genome editing tools, such as the CRISPR/Cas9 system which enable multi-gene changes to be made in major crops; the challenge is knowing what combinations of genes to edit. The 2016 corn harvest in the United States was valued at around $50 billion. The recent breakthroughs in genome editing now make significantly increasing, and perhaps doubling corn yield an achievable goal, if we knew what 5-6 genes to change. In the absence of this knowledge, however, we are left with the technically unrealistic prospect of experimentally testing every combination of genes. For example, testing just the 2400 predicted gene regulators or transcription factors of corn with a single type of change in all possible pairs would require almost 3 million experiments. 
There is thus clearly an unmet need to create advanced computational tools like GRAIN for predicting the right combinations of plant genes to modify for improvement of crop performance. There are two key components in plants, metabolic pathways and gene regulators called transcription factors. We find it useful to compare the flow of carbon through a plant to the flow of traffic in a major city. Using this analogy, metabolic pathways constitute the carbon conversion "infrastructure" and transcription factors constitute the genetic “traffic” lights that direct changes in plant metabolism in response to environmental or developmental conditions. Our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” metabolic engineering platform has already proven useful in identifying a number of our C3000 series of traits, and the “T3 Platform,” based on mining transcription factor network data sets identified our C4001, C4002 and C4003 global transcription factor gene traits. These gene traits enabled us to engineer switchgrass plants with high rates of photosynthesis and increased biomass yield. We are currently repeating our work with C4001 and C4003 in rice and wheat and plan to do so in corn.
GRAIN is an integrated platform based on key elements of our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” metabolic engineering platform and our “T3” platforms. Advanced metabolic flux analysis forms the foundation of the GRAIN platform we are developing based on Yield10 scientists unique 20-plus years of experience successfully deploying advanced metabolic flux analysis to address critical bottlenecks in carbon metabolism. Plant growth at its core is a series of chemical reactions and these can be modeled to determine the best ways to optimize the yield of the targeted end product. Advanced metabolic modeling based on flux-balance analysis and enzyme reaction thermodynamics and kinetics enables us to make predictions about which reaction modifications are most likely to achieve targeted performance improvements. However, as with all modeling approaches, the tool is only useful alongside the means and the data to test it in real plants. Here Yield10 makes use of metabolic and transcriptome data generated from its high-photosynthesis, high-yield engineered plants as well as from 
16

academic publications and other public data to project optimal gene targets for modifications. By integrating the transcriptome network capabilities of the T3 Platform, we expect to be able to identify transcription factor genes whose activity profiles can be altered to optimize multiple steps in metabolic pathways or the flow of carbon in plant tissues of interest. In a crop like modern hybrid corn, which already produces vastly more seed than it needs to reproduce, our initial objective is to reduce or even eliminate the activity of the transcription factors that restrict further seed production. Accordingly, our approach is to turn down the sequence of transcription factors (or “red lights”) which block the plant from sending more carbon to the seed. 
Based on elements of the GRAIN platform that we are already working on, we have identified the C4004 - C4027 series of transcription factor genes that are down-regulated in our high-photosynthesis engineered switchgrass plants as well as a number of new gene targets related to our lead C3003 yield trait. In many cases these gene targets can be modified by genome editing, opening the potential for the traits to not be regulated by USDA-APHIS, or in some cases, genes from the microbial world can be introduced to develop regulated traits. We believe our integrated GRAIN platform can be leveraged in the near term to secure research and development funding from industry partners.
The same logic applies to the metabolic infrastructure, where we need to identify the combinations of genes in specific metabolic pathways. Yield10 scientists have over 20 years of experience successfully deploying advanced metabolic flux analysis to address critical bottlenecks in carbon metabolism. Advanced metabolic flux analysis is based on metabolic flux balance, enzyme reaction thermodynamics and kinetics to create predictive models of targeted changes with the potential to significantly increase crop performance. These predictions can then be challenged using both the scientific literature as well as transcriptome and metabolic data generated by Yield10 from its high photosynthesis-high yield engineered plants. This system provides leads to very specific combinations of gene targets for enzyme activities or transport proteins to modify to improve crop performance. We are currently working on a number of new gene targets related to our lead C3003 yield trait based on this type of analysis to further improve its performance. In many cases these Smart Targets can be modified by genome editing or in some cases by simply introducing a new gene from the microbial world. We also believe our GET-SET program can be leveraged in the near term to secure research and development funding from industry partners.
Fast Field Testing System in Camelina
One of the challenges the agricultural industry has faced over the years is translating early crop science discoveries into value generating traits. This is in part because most of the plants used for discovery research have not been suitable for studies in the field. In addition, the plant systems used for discovery are not representative of the advanced seed or germplasm used in commercial production which have been subject to decades of intensive breeding to improve yield. The long timelines to progress early discoveries successfully into major crops and generate field data adds to the challenge.
In 2010, we established a research and development operation in Saskatoon, Canada staffed with leading oilseed researchers. Our team established a model for testing novel trait genes called the “Fast Field Testing” system based on our Camelina oilseed platform. We believe that this system has the potential to become a valuable tool for our yield trait discovery and translation effort. Camelina is an industrial oilseed, with reasonable field performance providing a robust model for canola and soybean and is well suited to multi-site field tests and larger scale trials. Camelina is a plant that can be readily genetically modified and bred through the efforts of our skilled staff to deliver genetically stable seed sufficient for planting in field tests. We have shown that we can go from the identification of a potential yield trait gene or combinations of genes to field planting in about 12 months. In our Fast Field Tests, we collect and analyze a broad set of data on our transgenic plants including parameters such as stand establishment, flowering, maturity, seed weight, seed size, oil content and oil composition. We also perform molecular analysis on plants of interest. We are using our Camelina Fast Field Test system to identify and screen trait genes of interest while deploying them in parallel into canola, soybean and rice where the timelines to obtain stable plant lines and field data are longer.
Traits in Development
With the benefit of more than five years of investment, the Company has been able to launch itself as Yield10 Bioscience with ownership or licensed rights to several crop trait genes in hand and with the lead yield trait gene C3003 well-positioned in terms of translation and demonstration in key crops. Yield10 has exclusive rights through ownership or licensing or is preparing to file patent applications covering the trait genes listed in the table below.
Under our “Smart Carbon Grid for Crops” technology platform we have identified the C3000 series of novel yield traits based on establishing new metabolic pathways in crops. We have tested our lead yield trait gene, C3003 in Camelina in both greenhouse and initial field tests and have reported results from these initial tests. We are moving this promising trait 
17

forward in additional crops including canola, soybean and rice and expect to report data once additional greenhouse tests and/or field tests have been completed and analyzed.
Under our “T3 Platform” we have identified the C4000 series of novel yield traits and gene editing targets. We expect to progress in our C4 monocot model a select few of the C4000 series traits, global regulatory genes discovered through our T3 Platform research program which we have shown to significantly enhance photosynthesis and carbon capture in switchgrass. We are also progressing the C4003 trait gene in rice using our internal resources and we expect to report initial rice data once greenhouse tests have been completed and analyzed.

SUMMARY OF OUR CROP YIELD TRAITS IN DEVELOPMENT 
R&D Area | Current Status 
Seed Yield Traits-Regulated1 
C3003 | Camelina 1st and 2nd generation in field testingCanola 1st generation in field testingSoybean and rice in development
Oil Enhancing Traits-Non-Regulated2 
C3004 | Camelina testing underway 
C3007 | Camelina, canola editing underway 
C3008a | Camelina non-regulated status achieved4 
Non-regulated oil trait combinations - C3008a, C3008b and C3009 | Camelina, editing of all 3 gene targets completed 
Additional oil trait combinations | Research in progress 
Yield Improvement Discovery Platform3 
C4001 | Wheat program underwayCorn transformation next step Rice transformation underway 
C4002 | Corn transformation next step 
C4003 | Wheat program underwayRice transformation underwayCorn transformation next step 
C4004 | Editing in rice underway 
C4004 plus 23 additional crop gene targets | Research with rice and wheat next step 

_____________

(1) | C3003 consists of an algal gene and will likely be regulated by USDA-APHIS as a GMO Trait. 
(2) | These traits are accessible using genome editing or other methods that do not result in the insertion of non-plant DNA. Such approaches have been deemed non-regulated by USDA-APHIS based on recent filings by ourselves and other groups. 
(3) | Traits in this area were developed in our T3 platform and all are potentially deployable through approaches which may be non-regulated by USDA-APHIS. 
(4) | Non-regulated status received from USDA-APHIS. Trait may be regulated by FDA or EPA. 

Novel Yield Trait Gene C3003
C3003 represents the lead novel yield trait gene in our “Smart Carbon Grid for Plants” technology platform. C3003 is a scientific discovery made in one of our academic collaborations funded by ARPA-e, a division of the Department of Energy. Our academic collaborator is continuing work to characterize C3003. C3003 appears to be a very unique gene that impacts photorespiration, a biochemical pathway in C3 plants, which is responsible for significant losses in yield. Yield10 is progressing the introduction of the C3003 trait gene as well as improvements to the C3003 trait in Camelina, canola, soybean and rice. During 2018 we plan to conduct greenhouse and field tests to continue to generate additional yield and agronomic data on C3003 in a variety of important crops. 
18

Camelina 
In the 2016 growing season, we conducted a small scale field test which was designed primarily to establish our Camelina Fast Field Testing platform for the evaluation of C3003 and other yield traits. As part of this study, we planted stable Camelina seed lines expressing first generation C3003. The results from the field test showed that first generation C3003 produced significant improvements in seed yield in which the best C3003 line produced a 23 percent increase as measured by average seed weight per hectare. This result was statistically significant (p<0.05) as compared to control plants. In addition, the highest yielding line expressing the C3003 gene matured an average of six days earlier than the control plants. Expression of C3003 did not change the percentage of oil content in the seed as measured by the weight of the oil in relation to the weight of the seed. While expression of first generation C3003 enabled some of the Camelina lines we tested to produce higher seed yields by weight per hectare, the individual seed weight in these lines was decreased as compared to controls, likely due to a change in carbon partitioning in the plant. This reduction in seed weight was expected based on data from prior greenhouse trials. We believe that the results of our 2016 field tests in Camelina are encouraging and suggest that our approach to engineering new metabolic pathways in plants has the potential to produce step-changes in crop yield. 
Based on prior greenhouse data suggesting that constitutive expression of C3003 in Camelina could increase overall seed yield, but produce this increase with the production of lighter weight seeds, we produced a second generation C3003 where the C3003 gene is expressed only in seed tissue. We believe that the reason for the smaller seeds is that the added influx of carbon produced by C3003 produces a “bottleneck” in plant metabolism that results in the production of more, but lighter weight seeds. In 2016, we tested second generation C3003 in Camelina in greenhouse studies. In early 2017, we reported preliminary greenhouse data showing that the second generation C3003 produced an increase in seed yield, while maintaining typical seed weight.
In our 2017 fast field test program, we tested both first and second generation versions of C3003 in Camelina. In the field tests, we monitored key agronomic and growth parameters of the plants throughout the field test and collected yield data including total harvested seed weight, individual seed weight and oil content in our transformed plants as compared to control plants. In January 2018, we reported encouraging results from our field tests of C3003 in Camelina. We conducted these field tests of C3003 at two sites in Canada. The main objectives of the studies were to evaluate the performance of C3003 in Camelina and canola. Yield10 researchers transformed plants with genetic constructs intended to optimize expression of C3003 during different stages of plant and seed development and tested these events in the field tests. The best events for second generation C3003 in Camelina produced improvements in seed yield (up to 7.7 percent), harvest index and overall agronomic performance as compared to control plants. The studies also met the objective for bulking up seed to enable further evaluation of C3003 in Camelina in field tests planned for spring 2018. A new second generation construct using a new promoter was tested in the minicage plots used for seed bulk up and produced plants showing indications of strong agronomic performance and seed yield. We plan to study two versions of second generation C3003 in Camelina in field tests planned for 2018. 
Based on encouraging data produced in Camelina with first and second generation C3003, we are continuing to progress the evaluation of the C3003 yield trait gene in parallel in canola, soybean and rice, key target crops where step-change increases in seed yield would improve the prospects for global food security and we believe create considerable economic value.
Canola 
Canola is an important North American oilseed crop harvested for its oil content. In our 2017 Fast Field Testing program, we studied first generation C3003 in canola. In these field tests, we monitored key agronomic and growth parameters of the plants throughout the field test and collected yield data including total weight of harvested seed, individual seed weight and oil content in our transformed plants as compared to control plants. In December 2017, we reported encouraging results from our field tests of C3003 in canola. The best events for first generation C3003 in canola produced improvements in seed yield (up to 13.1 percent) as compared to control plants. The studies also met the objective for bulking up seed to enable further evaluation of C3003 in canola in field tests planned for spring 2018. In 2018, we plan to repeat tests with first generation C3003 and, pending permitting and availability of seed, conduct initial tests with second generation C3003 in canola. 
The results we obtained in canola were similar to results obtained in prior studies with Camelina, illustrating that our Fast Field Testing system in Camelina may be a valuable tool for effectively screening novel yield trait genes and 
19

dynamically adapting our approach to trait development as we work to translate these improvements into commercially important crops.
Soybean
 Because soybean is the leading North American oilseed crop, we accelerated deployment of both first and second generation C3003 into soybean in 2016 and through an academic collaborator generated early greenhouse data in late 2017. Preliminary observations based on a small number of events suggest that results for C3003 obtained in Camelina and canola are translating into soybean. First generation C3003 produced seeds with lower individual seed weight while typical individual seed weight was observed with second generation C3003 in soybean. Further, our greenhouse results show that there is an increase in branching in the plants for some of the events tested. This is significant because more branching provides more sites on the soybean plant for seed pods to develop which is associated with obtaining higher yielding plants. We expect additional development work will continue in soybean with our collaborator in 2018.
In December 2017, we granted a non-exclusive research license to Monsanto Company to evaluate our novel C3003 and C3004 yield traits in soybean. Under the license, Monsanto has begun work with C3003 in its soybean program as a strategy to improve seed yield. Monsanto also plans to conduct research with our C3004 yield trait, a trait accessible through genome editing, in combination with C3003 to evaluate the effect of the combination to improve seed yield in soybean.
Other Crops 
Results from our studies with C3003 to date suggest that it may provide an entirely new strategy to improve seed yield in oilseeds and other C3 photosynthetic crops by bringing in new metabolic functionality from non-plant systems. We plan to continue to generate data on C3003 in field tests and greenhouse studies in 2018. Rice is an important staple food crop. We have initiated the introduction of the first and second generation versions of the C3003 yield trait gene in rice and expect to report our observations from those studies when testing has been completed and results have been analyzed. We plan to leverage third party services where the resources and infrastructure are already in place to transform and test novel traits in corn lines. We believe this will enable us to cost effectively expand our capabilities and enable us to progress our corn targets at least to the stage of initial corn hybrid field results.
Oil Enhancing Traits 
In light of the increasing focus on health and wellness, food safety and sustainability in developed countries, we anticipate a rise in demand for new varieties of food and food ingredients with improved nutritional properties. This concept is currently being implemented in Ag biotech, in both canola and soybean which have been modified to alter the composition of the oil produced. High oleic canola and soybean oils are being marketed as a "healthier" than other oils; we believe the ability to make similar marketing claims directly to the consumer will be a feature of newly developed products in this space. We expect consumer demand for identity preserved specialty ingredients will rise, and we believe that Yield10's crop yield technologies and crop gene editing targets could be useful in this emerging field. 
Based on our study of metabolic pathways in oilseed crops, we believe there is an opportunity to apply genome editing to gene targets involved in oil biosynthesis to significantly increase oil content in oilseed crops including canola, soybean, sunflower and safflower. In 2017, we received confirmation from USDA-APHIS’s Biotechnology Regulatory Services (BRS) that our genome-edited Camelina plant line developed using CRISPR genome editing technology for increased oil content does not meet the definition of a regulated article under 7 CFR Part 340 regulations. Together with our wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc., we developed the genome edited Camelina line. Researchers used the CRISPR genome editing tool to inactivate an enzyme expected to increase seed oil content in Camelina, a trait we have designated as C3008. This trait may have further applications when used in combination with other traits that we are developing that are expected to increase seed oil content. We are currently evaluating combinations of the genome editing targets to optimize oil content in Camelina and canola, and plan to do so in soybean with the objective of achieving non-regulated status from USDA-APHIS.
In 2017, we took an option to an exclusive global license from University of Missouri for advanced oilseed technology including C3007 and a related target involved in oil biosynthesis. We are conducting research with C3007 alone and in combination with other targets in the oil biosynthesis pathway with the objective of increasing oil content through methods that could achieve non-regulated status with USDA-APHIS. 
20

C4000 Series Traits 
We have used our T3 Platform to study global transcription factors and identify novel yield traits. These traits may be powerful regulators of plant growth and represent a potentially valuable resource for identifying genome editing traits for crops. We have recently shown that traits from the C4000 series can significantly increase photosynthetic efficiency as well as aboveground and belowground biomass production in our switchgrass plants. Our early experiments have been successful in demonstrating the potential to increase the rate of photosynthesis even in a high yielding C4 crop. Initially, we have been able to progress the C4003 trait gene in rice using our internal resources and we expect to report initial rice data as soon as it is available. Traits in this series also provide us with an opportunity to selectively partner with others for the development of these traits in row crops as well as forage crops. 
In June 2017, we reported that our novel C4001 trait, a global regulatory gene or transcription factor, has been shown to significantly increase plant biomass yield in switchgrass. Switchgrass plants expressing C4001 had significantly more aboveground biomass (75-100 percent increase in dry weight) as compared to controls and more root biomass (85-145 percent increase in dry weight) as compared to controls. The C4001 trait in switchgrass plants increased a key measure of photosynthetic efficiency, the electron transport rate, by approximately 75 percent. Yield10 researchers challenged the C4001 plants by engineering a novel carbon sink, the production of a biopolymer that typically reduces plant yield when expressed and accumulated at high levels in plants. Expression of C4001 in biopolymer producing plants partially restored biomass production, yielding plants that were healthier in terms of size and weight as compared to control plants, while producing the same amount of biopolymer. As a next step, we are planning to evaluate C4001‑like traits in forage crops and major commercial crops including corn and rice. We are currently evaluating the trait in rice in greenhouse studies, where we are seeing evidence of increased biomass and are awaiting results from ongoing research to determine the impact on seed yield.
Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc., signed a two-year collaboration with the National Research Council of Canada in 2017 to improve yield and drought tolerance in wheat. The collaboration will focus on new trait discovery in wheat using our T3 Platform technology. Under the collaboration, we will provide access to our proprietary C4000 series of traits, which include global regulatory genes, or global transcription factors (“GTFs”). We have shown that these trait genes have the potential to significantly increase photosynthesis and yield in certain crops. Research with the C4000 series of traits will allow the discovery of additional gene targets in wheat that could enhance the yield and/or drought tolerance of the crop. Wheat is a major global staple food crop where significant yield increases could play a major role in feeding the world. We expect NRC will continue to conduct work with our traits in wheat in 2018. 
Target Crops 
Our initial work in our C3000 and C4000 series traits suggests that our technology may be applicable to a wide range of crops harvested for food and animal feed uses. We believe that if novel yield traits could be successfully developed and commercialized in any of these crops, farmers would be able to improve the productivity of their land to meet rising demand for food and feed, creating significant economic value.
In considering our strategy to develop our technologies we segregate our trait genes into two classes: trait genes based on using non-plant genes to add new functionality to crops which are by definition GM; and trait genes which we may be able to deploy outside of the GM regulations, which encompasses our trait genes which are based exclusively on plant genes. We see the opportunity to deploy our trait technology in a broader set of food and feed crops many of which are not currently GM. We plan to pursue our GM trait genes in crops which are currently GM and where the economics can sustain the cost and timelines for deregulation. We are aware of the current USDA-APHIS GM crop regulation review and the reality that GM likely will remain an issue for some NGO groups regardless of the science. For our GM yield trait genes, we are targeting seed yield increases on the order of 10 to 20 percent over the current elite seed lines, increases which reflect the order of magnitude step-changes necessary to address global food security.
The crops we are targeting for development are described below.
Camelina or Camelina sativa is an oilseed crop in limited cultivation in North America and Europe. Camelina has received recent attention as an industrial oilseed for the production of biofuels, novel industrial lipids, and oleochemicals. In addition, its meal has been identified for development as an animal and fish feed supplement. While it is not currently a commercially significant crop, research suggests that efforts to improve seed yield, oil content and fatty acid composition, and tolerance to heat stress may expand the commercial adoption and cultivation of Camelina.
Canola or Brassica napus is a cultivar of rapeseed which produces a higher value edible oil favored by consumers because it has a healthier fatty acid profile than corn or soybean oil. The canola crop was developed in Canada where it is 
21

primarily grown today with additional acreage grown in the U.S. Currently the vast majority of the canola grown in North America contains two seed enhancement technologies, herbicide tolerance and hybrid seed. Both Roundup Ready (Monsanto) and Liberty-Link (Bayer) varieties of canola are grown and were introduced to the market in 1990s. Approximately 25.6 million acres were planted in Canada and the U.S. in the 2017 growing season. Yield10 is targeting a 20 percent or greater increase in canola seed yield. With a 2017 harvest of 939 million bushels of canola (Statistics Canada) and assuming an average farm gate price of $10.00 per bushel, a 20 percent yield increase in canola represents a total potential added annual value of $1.9 billion that could be shared among the players in the canola value chain.
Soybean or Glycine max is an oilseed crop used for food, food ingredients, food additives and animal feed. The soybean can be harvested for oil used in food and industrial applications, and soybean meal is a significant source of protein for use mostly in animal feed but also for direct human consumption. Fermented soy foods include soy sauce and tempeh, and non-fermented food uses include soy milk and tofu. Soybeans are widely cultivated in North and South America, where a majority of the seed planted is genetically modified. An estimated 96.7 million acres of soybean will be planted in the U.S. and Canada in the 2017/2018 growing season. According to the USDA, the U.S., Brazil and Argentina together represent approximately 80 percent of global soybean production. Yield10 is targeting a 20 percent or greater increase in soybean seed yield. Assuming a 2017/2018 U.S. harvest of 4.4 billion bushels (USDA) and an average farm gate price of $10.00 per bushel, a 20 percent yield increase in soybean represents a total potential added annual value of $8.8 billion that could be shared among the players in the soybean value chain.
Corn is a crop grown globally and used for animal feed and for producing starch which can be used as a raw material for producing food ingredients and food additives, as well as for use in the production of paper, packaging materials and other items. GM maize was grown for the first time in the U.S. and Canada in 1997. Currently, about 80 percent of maize/corn production in the U.S. is genetically modified. It was estimated that more than 86 million acres of corn were planted in North America in the 2017 growing season. The traits commonly used in today’s corn cultivars provide insect resistance and herbicide tolerance. In many GM seeds sold today, both of these traits are expressed (or “stacked” which refers to the practice of adding multiple traits to an elite plant line). Europe has limited production of GM corn, where Spain is a leading producer of GM corn. In this case, the most widely used GM trait (Bt) protects against the corn borer insect. Special protocols must be followed in Europe to avoid mixing of GM corn with conventional corn. Corn has the more efficient C4 photosynthesis system and Yield10 is targeting a 10 percent yield increase in corn. With a projected 2017/2018 U.S. harvest of 14.6 billion bushels and an average per bushel price of $3.50, a 10 percent yield increase in corn represents a total potential added annual value of $10.2 billion that could be shared among the players in the corn value chain.
Rice is the staple food for over 50 percent of the global population. World crop production of rice for 2017/2018 is estimated at approximately 485 million metric tons. Rice is grown in tropical and subtropical regions around the world. Rice cultivation takes place primarily in China, India and Southeast Asia. Typically, improvements to rice yield have been achieved through traditional plant breeding approaches. Genetic engineering approaches are being investigated to protect rice from weeds and insect pests. Additional biotechnology approaches are being taken to improve the nutritional value of rice. While Yield10 has not established a target for yield improvement in rice, early work is underway to evaluate the potential of our technologies in this globally important food crop.
Wheat is a species of grass cultivated broadly worldwide as a staple cereal crop. Wheat requires processing to be used as food, mainly in the form of flour for bread, baked goods and pasta. Wheat may also be used as an industrial starch, as a food additive or as a production component in the textile and paper industries. Improvements to wheat yield have typically been achieved through plant breeding approaches. Wheat production ranks third among U.S. field crops in planted acreage, production and gross farm receipts behind corn and soybeans. The planted area for wheat in the U.S. and Canada combined for 2017/2018 is projected at 57 million acres.
Forage crops are grown expressly for biomass used for feeding livestock. Typical forage crops include both annual and perennial crops such as various grasses, silage corn, alfalfa and sorghum. Biotechnology traits have been previously introduced into silage corn and alfalfa. Other forage crops could be amenable to gene editing strategies to increase biomass yield per acre. We believe that our technology and traits that increase biomass may have application to forage crops. 
Regulatory Requirements
Since the first successful commercialization of a biotechnology-derived crop in the 1990s, many new GM crop varieties have been developed and made available to U.S. farmers and farmers worldwide. U.S. farmers have rapidly adopted many of these new GM varieties, so that in 2016, 92 percent of the corn, 93 percent of the cotton, and 94 percent of the 
22

soybeans planted in the U.S. were varieties produced through genetic engineering. A significant percentage of the production of other crops, such as alfalfa, papaya and sugar beet, are also biotech-derived.
            Genetically modified crops are subject to a significant amount of regulation in the U.S. and around the world.  Field tests and field trials of GM crops need to ensure that traits in development do not escape or mix with native plants.  The U.S. Government agencies responsible for oversight of the products of modern agricultural biotechnology are the United States Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Depending on its characteristics, a product may be subject to the jurisdiction of one or more of these agencies under the federal government’s 1986 Coordinated Framework for the Regulation of Biotechnology (most recently updated in January 2017). Regulatory officials from the three agencies regularly communicate and exchange information to ensure that any safety or regulatory issues that may arise are appropriately resolved within the scope of authority afforded to each agency under their respective statutes.  Other environmental laws or regulations also may be implicated, depending on the specific product.
            Within USDA, APHIS is responsible for protecting agricultural plants from pests, diseases and noxious weeds. Under the Plant Protection Act, USDA-APHIS has regulatory oversight over products of modern biotechnology that could pose such a risk. Accordingly, USDA-APHIS regulates organisms and products that are known or suspected to be plant pests or to pose a plant pest risk, including those that have been altered or produced through genetic engineering. These are called “regulated articles.” USDA-APHIS regulates the import, handling, interstate movement, and release into the environment of regulated organisms that are products of biotechnology, including organisms undergoing confined experimental use or field trials. Regulated articles are reviewed to ensure that, under the proposed conditions of use, they do not present a plant pest risk through ensuring appropriate handling, confinement and disposal.  The developer may then petition USDA-APHIS for a determination of non-regulated status for the article.  If the agency determines that the Genetically Engineered ("GE") plant is unlikely to present a greater plant pest risk than its unmodified counterpart, the new crop will no longer be subject to the permitting and other regulatory processes that are overseen by USDA-APHIS (i.e., it will no longer be treated as a potential plant pest).
In June 2017, we submitted an “Am I Regulated?” letter to USDA-APHIS’s Biotechnology Regulatory Services (BRS) to confirm that our genome-edited Camelina plant line developed using CRISPR genome editing technology for increased oil content does not meet the definition of a regulated article under 7 CFR Part 340 regulations, and in September 2017, we received confirmation that the BRS agrees with that conclusion. Together with our wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, Metabolix Oilseeds, Inc., we developed the genome edited Camelina line.  Researchers used the CRISPR genome editing tool to inactivate an enzyme expected to increase seed oil content in Camelina, a trait we have designated as C3008.  There are three copies of this gene in the Camelina genome, and complete editing of all copies was achieved.  This trait may have further applications when used in combination with other traits that we are developing that are expected to increase seed oil content, including C3007.
            Subsequently, depending on the intended use of the non-regulated genetically engineered plant, the developer may need to work within separate EPA or FDA oversight rules before commercial introduction of the final product.  EPA primarily regulates products of biotechnology that are intended for use as pesticides, under the authorities granted to EPA by the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).  FDA is the agency responsible for overseeing the safety of biotechnology-derived products that are intended to be used as human or animal food, or that may end up in the food supply.  Since 1992, FDA has had in place a voluntary consultation process for developers of bioengineered food. Final agency decisions and other information from these Biotechnology Consultations are made publicly available by FDA.  Consultations are data-intensive and examine the new food product’s safety and nutritional profile, among other issues. Generally, FDA has found that such food products do not pose unique health risks to humans or animals, but if a novel allergen or other distinction from the conventional food is present in the new plant variety, the agency may require specific label statements on the product to ensure that consumers are made aware of material differences between GE and conventional versions.
     In Canada, the largest producer of GM canola, GM crops and the food products into which they are incorporated also are regulated by multiple government agencies under a federal framework for the regulation of biotechnology products that is similar to the U.S. system.  First, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) is the lead agency for ensuring that a new agricultural biotechnology crop will not pose new risks to Canadian plants, animals and other agricultural commodities.  The CFIA’s Plant Biosafety Office (PBO) is responsible for conducting environmental assessments of biotechnology-derived plants. Authority for the PBO includes both approving confined field trials with the GM crop through permits and authorizing their “unconfined release” as a first step towards commercialization.  
23

Second, under the Food and Drugs Act and related regulations, Health Canada is responsible for reviewing a pre-market safety assessment that must be submitted by the manufacturer or importer of a “novel food,” a term of art which includes GM or biotechnology-derived foods.  The safety assessment should provide assurances that the novel food is safe when prepared or consumed according to its intended use.  A multi-disciplinary team of experts from Health Canada will evaluate the data and information about the novel food and make a determination regarding whether it can be sold in Canada, and whether any restrictions are warranted under applicable law or the product’s safety profile.  Health Canada’s final decision documents regarding the safety of these novel foods are made available to the public by the government.  
As the lead agency for public health and safety, Health Canada also works in conjunction with the CFIA on food labeling oversight when it has identified a potential health or safety issues with a food that could be mitigated through labeling or other disclosures.  For example, if the biotechnology-derived food contains a new allergen that is otherwise not present in the conventional version of the food, then specific label statements will be required to alert consumers to that important health information. However, the CFIA has primary oversight over non-health issues related to food labeling, packaging and advertising.  Accordingly, the CFIA is the lead agency for ensuring that food labeling and advertising meet the legal requirements of the Food and Drugs Act, and that labeling representations do not create a potential risk of fraud or consumer confusion and are compliant with Canada’s voluntary disclosure standard for genetically engineered food ingredients.  
Finally, Environment Canada is available to serve as a regulatory “safety net” if a novel product does not naturally fall within the jurisdiction of the CFIA, Health Canada, or the Pest Management Regulatory Agency that oversees pesticide products.
            Our work involving the development, greenhouse testing and field testing of novel yield trait genes in crop plants requires certain government and municipal permits and we must ensure compliance with all applicable regulations including regulations relating to GM crops.  With laboratories and greenhouse in both the U.S. and Canada, we are subject to regulations governing the shipment of seeds and other plant material (including GM seeds and GM plant material) between our facilities in the U.S. and Canada, including USDA-APHIS permits for the import and export of plant materials that could pose a risk to domestic agriculture.
License Agreement with the University of Massachusetts
Pursuant to a license agreement with the University of Massachusetts ("UMASS") dated as of June 30, 2015, we have an exclusive, worldwide license under certain patents and patent applications to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, have sold and import any transgenic plant seed or plant grown there from or transgenic plant material developed for sale to a farmer or grower for planting in the field, which transgenic plant seed or plant grown therefrom or transgenic plant material is covered by, embodies or is derived from (in whole or in part) one or more issued or pending claims of the licensed patents or patent applications. The licensed patent rights include issued patents covering our yield trait gene C3003.
We are required to use diligent efforts to develop licensed products throughout the field of use and to introduce licensed products into the commercial market. In that regard, we are obligated to fulfill certain development and regulatory milestones relating to C3003, including completion of multi-site field demonstrations of a crop species in which C3003 has been introduced, and filing for regulatory approval of a crop species in which C3003 has been introduced within a specified period. Our failure to achieve any milestone provided for under the agreement would, if we are unable to reach agreement with UMASS as to a potential adjustment of the applicable milestone, give UMASS the right to terminate the agreement, following a notice period.
We are obligated to pay UMASS milestone payments relating to any regulatory filings and approvals covered by the agreement, royalties on any sales of licensed products following regulatory approval, as well as a percentage of any sublicense income related to the licensed products.
We may terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice to UMASS. Either party may terminate for material breach immediately upon written notice for a breach that is not cured within 60 days after receiving written notice of the breach. In addition, UMASS may terminate this agreement with respect to certain patent rights immediately upon written notice in the event we contest the validity or enforceability of such patent rights.
Agricultural Industry Landscape
Following advances in biotechnology in the 1970s through early 1990s, the first genetically modified crops were commercially introduced in the U.S. in the years 1994 and 1995. Today, the U.S. leads the world in the adoption of GM 
24

crops in terms of crop value and acreage planted. GM crops have had both their supporters and their detractors over the years. Consumer sentiment including concerns about the safety of GM crops have limited the introduction and adoption of GM crops in Europe. However, recent studies by the National Academy of Science continue to support the 20 year history of safe use of GM crops.
The International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-Biotech Applications (ISAAA), an industry research group, reported that 457 million acres worldwide were planted with GM crops in 2016, the most recent year where data is available. The planting of GM crops is centered in the Americas with North America at approximately 45 percent of the acres and Latin America at approximately 43 percent. China and India follow with approximately 8 percent and the balance of the total worldwide GM crop acreage in 2016 was planted in European Union and the rest of world. The primary GM crops in the U.S. are corn, soybean, cotton and sugar beet. In Canada, the oilseed crop canola is the primary GM crop. Cotton is the primary GM crop grown in India and China.
In contrast to the Americas, the European Union has been relatively slow to adopt GM crops and has relied heavily on plant breeding programs for capturing crop yield improvements over the last 20 years. In 2016, Spain was the largest producer of GM crops in Europe, based on cultivation of GM corn representing approximately 20 percent of the country’s crop that year. Certain GM crops have been approved for cultivation in some European countries, while other countries have imposed outright bans on cultivation of GM crops.
According to the market research firm, Research and Markets, the total global seed business was estimated at $53 billion in 2014 and is projected to grow to more than $100 billion by 2022. According to an ISAAA report, the global GM seed business represented a $15.8 billion market in 2016. The traits being commercialized today by the agricultural industry mainly address crop protection, which involves preventing crop damage by weeds, insects and other pests that lower expected crop yield. As technology has advanced, “trait stacking,” or the practice of adding multiple traits to an elite plant line, has become commonplace as a strategy to protect yield. As the industry has developed, the practice of inter-licensing traits between research and development driven seed companies has led to a proliferation of branded seed products on the market today.
The GM seed business is dominated by large multinational companies and their subsidiaries including BASF, Bayer, DowDuPont, Monsanto, Syngenta and AgReliant. These companies have significant resources, experience and track records of successfully developing, testing and commercializing high performing seed lines as well as new traits for GM crops. They offer farmers conventional and biotechnology seeds as well as crop protection chemicals, biologicals, fertilizers and other products and technologies aimed at supporting the on-farm efficiency of managing crops in the field as well as managing the overall cost of crop production to successful harvest. Many of these companies are involved in the current sector consolidation with the DowDupont merger and the acquisition of Syngenta by ChemChina completed in 2017, and the acquisition of Monsanto by Bayer anticipated in 2018.
Privately owned, U.S. retail seed companies play a key role in the industry by developing, marketing and selling high performing seed to U.S. farmers. These companies include Beck’s Hybrids and Stine Seed. These companies have capabilities in both biotechnology and plant breeding. They source traits from the multinational companies and input these traits into elite plant germplasm to produce seeds optimized for a variety of soil, climate and field conditions. Both companies offer a broad arrange of GM corn and soybean products to their customers.
 Recent advances in biotechnology including gene editing have led to the formation of companies focusing on yield trait discovery, biologicals for pest control, agbiome strategies and precision agriculture. There are startups, privately held and publicly traded companies involved in this space. Such companies include AgBiome, Arcadia Biosciences, Benson Hill Biosystems, Calytx, Cibus, Evogene, Indigo, Kaiima, and Marrone Bio Innovation, many of which have greater resources and experience than we have. 
Intellectual Property
Our continued success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2017, we owned or held exclusive rights to 15 pending patent applications worldwide related to advanced technologies for increasing yield in crops. Our portfolio of patent applications includes plant science technologies we have in-licensed globally and exclusively from The University of Massachusetts and North Carolina State University related to the yield trait gene C3003 and other advanced technologies based on advanced metabolic engineering methods to improve carbon capture and selectively control carbon partitioning in plants. 
25

We continue to seek, develop and evaluate new technologies and related intellectual property that might enhance our Company's business strategy, industry position or deployment options.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 20 full-time employees. Of those employees, 16 were in research and development. Among our staff, 8 hold Ph.D.’s and 12 hold masters’ or bachelors’ degrees in their respective disciplines. Our technical staff has expertise in the following areas: plant genetics, plant biology, microbial genetics, bioinformatics, metabolic engineering and systems biology. Our headquarters are located in Massachusetts, and we maintain a research and development facility, including greenhouse facilities, in Saskatoon, Canada. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.
Corporate History and Investor Information 
We changed our name to Yield10 Bioscience, Inc. in January 2017 to reflect our change in mission around innovations in agricultural biotechnology focused on developing disruptive technologies for step-change improvements in crop yield. In 1992, our Company was incorporated in Massachusetts under the name Metabolix, Inc. In September 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware. Financial and other information about our Company is available on our website at www.yield10bio.com. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
 Investors should note that we announce material information to our investors using our website, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our shareholders and the public about our Company, our products and other matters. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our Company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed at the top of our website.
In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
