Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business
--------+---------

The Company
 NCM, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was organized on October 5, 2006 and began operations on February 13, 2007 upon completion of its IPO. NCM, Inc. is a holding company that manages its consolidated subsidiary, NCM LLC.  NCM, Inc. has no business operations or material assets other than its cash and ownership interest of approximately 49.5% of the common membership units in NCM LLC as of December 28, 2017.  NCM LLC’s founding members, AMC, Cinemark and Regal, the three largest motion picture exhibition companies in the U.S., held the remaining 50.5% of NCM LLC’s common membership units as of December 28, 2017.  NCM, Inc.’s primary source of cash flow from operations is distributions from NCM LLC pursuant to the NCM LLC operating agreement.  NCM, Inc. also receives management fees pursuant to a management services agreement with NCM LLC in exchange for providing specific management services to NCM LLC.
 NCM LLC has long-term ESAs with the founding members (over 19 years remaining as of December 28, 2017) and multi-year agreements with certain third-party theater circuits, referred to in this document as “network affiliates,” which expire at various dates between May 31, 2018 and July 22, 2031.  The ESAs and network affiliate agreements grant NCM LLC exclusive rights in their theaters to sell advertising, subject to limited exceptions.
 Our Business
 We are America's Movie Network. As the #1 weekend network for Millennials (age 18-34) in the U.S., we are the connector between brands and movie audiences. 
 We currently derive revenue principally from the sale of advertising to national, regional and local businesses in Noovie, our cinema advertising and entertainment pre-show seen on movie screens across the U.S. We also sell advertising on our Lobby Entertainment Network (“LEN”), a series of strategically-placed screens located in movie theater lobbies, as well as other forms of advertising and promotions in theater lobbies. In addition, we sell online and mobile advertising across our Noovie digital products as well as through our Cinema Accelerator digital product to reach entertainment audiences beyond the theater.
 We believe that the broad reach and digital delivery of our network provides an effective platform for national, regional and local advertisers to reach a large, young, engaged and affluent audience on a targeted and measurable basis.  
 On-Screen Advertising
 Noovie—Our on-screen Noovie pre-show was launched in September of 2017 replacing our prior pre-show called FirstLook. Our pre-show provides an entertaining pre-movie experience for theater patrons while serving as an incremental revenue source for our theater circuit partners. Noovie gives movie audiences a reason to arrive early to discover what’s next in entertainment, and it consists of national, regional and local advertising, as well as long-form entertainment and advertising content provided to us under exclusive multi-year arrangements with leading media, entertainment, technology and other companies (“content partners”). 
 Noovie generally ranges in length from 20 to 30 minutes and ends at or about the advertised show time, when the movie trailers and feature film begin. The trailers that run before the feature film are not part of Noovie.  
 Because Noovie is customized by theater circuit, theater location/market, film rating, film genre and film title, we produce and distribute many different versions of Noovie each month. This programming flexibility provides advertisers with the ability to target specific audience demographics and geographic locations, and gives us the ability to ensure that the content and advertising is age-appropriate for the movie audience. It also enables us to incorporate the branding of a specific theater circuit if desired. We rotate Noovie’s long-form content segments between theaters approximately every two weeks to ensure that frequent moviegoers are entertained by fresh content.
 We also have the capability to deliver three-dimensional (“3-D”) advertising campaigns within a 3-D version of the Noovie pre-show program prior to 3-D feature films.
 All versions of Noovie are produced by our internal creative team, which is cost-effective and gives us significant flexibility. We also offer pre- and post-production advertising creative services to our clients (primarily local clients who may not have their own creative agency) for a fee.  
 5

Show Structure—Noovie is comprised of up to four segments, each approximately four to seven minutes in length. 
  
• | Segment four is the first section of Noovie and begins approximately 20 to 30 minutes prior to the advertised show time. Entertaining content is a core element of Noovie, and NCM programs an exclusive Noovie content pod at the beginning of the show that gives audiences a look at “what’s Noovie” in their world, including movies (Noovie Backlot and Noovie Genius), music (Noovie Soundcheck), trivia (Name That Movie), local, and more. This Noovie pod is followed by local advertising.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Segment three typically begins approximately 18 minutes prior to the advertised show time and features primarily 15 or 30-second local or regional advertisements by individual theaters, or across an entire DMA® or geographic region, as well as a long-form entertainment content segment from one of our content partners.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Segment two begins approximately 13 minutes before the advertised show time and features primarily national and regional advertisements, which are generally 30 or 60 seconds, as well as a long-form entertainment content segment from one of our content partners.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Segment one runs closest to the advertised show time at approximately 8 minutes and features primarily national advertisements, which are generally 30 or 60 seconds, as well as a long-form entertainment content segment from one of our content partners. Segment one also includes an advertisement for the founding members’ beverage supplier and a public service announcement (“PSA”).
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The Noovie pre-show typically includes the following:
 National, Regional and Local Advertising—On-screen advertising in Noovie is sold on a cost per thousand (“CPM”) basis to national clients. We generally sell our national advertising units across our national network by film rating or groups of ratings, or by individual film or film genre grouping. This ability to target various groups of films offers national advertisers a way to target specific audience demographics at various price points and overall cost levels, which we believe expands the number of potential clients.
 Local and regional advertising is primarily sold on a per-screen, per-week basis and can also be sold on a CPM basis. The Noovie pre-show inventory is also available in the STRATA and Mediaocean systems, media buying and selling softwares which allow advertising agencies to buy cinema advertising in the “National Spot TV” marketplace where advertising is purchased by national advertisers in several markets of their own selection. Being able to buy both TV and cinema locally in the National Spot marketplace makes it significantly easier for agencies to include cinema in the media mix for their clients and allows us to tap into the pool of advertising dollars budgeted for National Spot.  
 Our cinema advertising business has a diverse customer base, consisting of national, regional and local advertisers. As of December 28, 2017, 541 national advertisers across a wide variety of industries have advertised with us. During the year ended December 28, 2017, we derived 70% of our advertising revenue from national clients (including advertising agencies that represent our clients) and 23% of our advertising revenue from thousands of regional and local advertisers across the country (including advertising agencies that represent these clients).
 Content. Beyond the Noovie-branded content at the beginning of the pre-show, the majority of our entertainment and advertising content segments are provided to us by content partners. Under the terms of the contracts, our content partners make available to us original entertainment content segments that are entertaining, informative or educational in nature in the Noovie program and make commitments to buy a portion of our advertising inventory at a specified CPM over a one or two-year period with options to renew, exercisable at the content partner’s option.  The original content produced by these content partners typically features behind-the-scenes looks at the “making-of” feature films, upcoming broadcasts, cable television shows, or technology products.  In the first nine months of 2017, all of our content partners provided approximately two-minute segments. Following the launch of the Noovie pre-show in September 2017, the content partners provided approximately 90 second segments.
 PSA. We had four agreements to exhibit a 40-second courtesy “silence your cell phone” PSA reminding moviegoers to silence their cell phones and refrain from texting during feature films, one with an insurance company, one with a home security company, one with a motion picture studio and another with a candy company which all expired at the end of 2017. Three of these agreements have re-signed for 2018.  
 3-D Advertising. We also sell 3-D advertising, which runs prior to select 3-D films. These 3-D advertisements are placed at the end of the Noovie pre-show, after a message instructing the movie audience to put on their 3-D glasses, so that 
 6

the glasses can be kept on throughout the remainder of Noovie, the film trailers and the 3-D feature film to provide for a better experience. 3-D advertisements provide average advertising CPMs that are higher than average two-dimensional (“2-D”) pricing due primarily to the fact that 3-D advertisements have heightened recall (based on third-party research).  
Name That Movie – During 2017, we entered into a licensing agreement authorizing the production of Name That Movie trivia segments for our Noovie pre-show, social media channels and future digital properties in order to further entertain and engage moviegoers. We also offer the opportunity for our advertising customers to sponsor the Name That Movie segments and incorporate advertising into the game.
 Beverage Advertising—We also have a long-term agreement to exhibit the advertising of the founding members’ beverage supplier. Under the ESAs, up to 90 seconds of the Noovie program can be sold to the founding members to satisfy their on-screen advertising commitments under their beverage concessionaire agreements at a rate intended to approximate a market rate (per the ESA, the annual CPM change equals the prior year annual percentage change in the advertising CPM charged to unaffiliated third parties during segment one (closest to showtime) of the Noovie pre-show, limited to the highest advertising CPM being then-charged by NCM LLC). Each of the founding members has a relationship with a beverage concessionaire supplier under which they are obligated to provide on-screen advertising time as part of their agreement to purchase branded beverages sold in their theaters. During 2017, we sold 60 seconds to two of the founding members and 30 seconds to one of the founding members. During 2017, the beverage concessionaire revenue from the founding members’ beverage agreements was 7% of our total revenue. In the instance of encumbered theaters, we remain entitled to these beverage payments under the terms of the ESA which are treated as a reduction to the intangible asset and not classified as revenue.
 Theater Circuit Messaging—The Noovie program also includes time slots for the founding members and network affiliates to advertise various activities associated with the operations of the theaters, including concessions, online ticketing partners, gift card and loyalty programs, special events presented by the theater operator and vendors of services provided to theaters, so long as such promotion is incidental to the vendor’s service or products sold in the theater. This time is provided to the theater operator at no charge and generally includes 45 seconds within 15 minutes of show time, 15 seconds of which will be placed within 12 minutes of show time, and the remainder placed at our discretion.
Lobby Advertising 
 Lobby Entertainment Network—Our LEN is a network of video screens strategically located throughout the lobbies of all digitally equipped founding members’ theaters, as well as the majority of our network affiliate theaters. As of December 28, 2017, our LEN had 3,054 screens in 1,536 theaters in our network. The LEN screens are placed in high-traffic locations such as concession stands, box offices and other waiting areas.  Programming on our LEN consists of an approximately 30-minute loop of branded entertainment content segments created specifically for the lobby with advertisements running between each segment. We have the scheduling flexibility to send different LEN programming to each theater through our DCN, and the same program is displayed simultaneously on all lobby screens within a given theater, which we believe provides the maximum impact for our advertisers. We sell national and local advertising on the LEN individually or bundled with on-screen or other lobby promotions. 
 The LEN programming includes up to two minutes for founding members’ advertisements to promote activities associated with the operation of the theaters, including concessions, ticketing partners, gift card and loyalty programs, special events presented by the theater operator and vendors of services provided to theaters, so long as such promotion is incidental to the vendor’s service. Additionally, subject to certain limitations, the LEN programming includes up to two minutes (one minute of which we provide to the founding members at no cost and one minute of which the founding members may purchase) to promote certain non-exclusive cross-marketing relationships entered into by the theater operators for the purpose of increasing theater attendance, which we call “strategic programs.”
 Under the terms of the ESAs, the founding members also have the right to install additional screens in their theater lobbies which would not display our LEN programming, but would be used to promote strategic programs or products sold in their theater concessions, bars and dining operations, ticketing partner promotions, gift card and loyalty programs, special events presented by the founding member and vendors of services provided to theaters, so long as such promotion is incidental to the vendor’s service.
 Lobby Promotions
 We also sell a wide variety of advertising and promotional products in theater lobbies. These products can be sold individually or bundled with on-screen, LEN, online or mobile advertising. Lobby promotions typically include:

• | advertising on concession items such as beverage cups, popcorn bags and kids’ trays;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 7

 
• | coupons and promotional materials, which are customizable by film and are distributed to ticket buyers at the box office or as they exit the theater;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | tabling displays, product demonstrations and sampling;
--+-------------------------------------------------------


• | touch-screen display units and kiosks; and
--+-------------------------------------------


• | signage throughout the lobbies, including posters, banners, counter cards, danglers, floor mats, standees and window clings.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Beginning in 2017 we have agreements with vendors enabling us to sell advertising on digital banner and screen equipment within certain exhibitor theater lobbies.
 Under the terms of the ESAs, the founding members may conduct a limited number of lobby promotions at no charge in connection with strategic programs that promote motion pictures; however, such activities will not reduce the lobby promotions inventory available to us.
 Our ability to provide in-lobby marketing and promotional placements in conjunction with our cinema advertising products allows us to offer integrated marketing solutions to advertisers that provide multiple touchpoints with theater patrons throughout the movie-going experience, which we believe is a competitive advantage over other national media platforms.
 Digital Advertising
 At its core, Noovie is NCM’s pre-show that audiences experience before the movie, but Noovie also stretches beyond the theater as an integrated digital ecosystem delivering entertaining content, purposeful commerce, and interactive gaming opportunities. The Noovie pre-show serves as a “trailer” for the Noovie digital experience, driving movie audiences from the big screen to NCM’s digital properties and back again. We believe that by creating a compelling consumer experience for moviegoers, we can further enhance the marketability of our product offerings to our advertising customers. The Noovie digital ecosystem is designed to provide digital advertising inventory and capture exclusive first party data, and includes:
 Gaming – During 2017, we acquired Fantasy Movie League, a box office predictions game that combines the fierce competition of fantasy sports with the world of entertainment and movies. Fantasy Movie League can currently be played online at FantasyMovieLeague.com or through the Fantasy Movie League iOs app, and it is promoted on-screen in our Noovie pre-show to help grow Fantasy Movie League’s gaming audience. Additionally during 2017, we began development of the first Noovie app, Noovie ARcade, created to bring augmented reality gaming to the big screen and beyond. We intend to roll it out in select markets in 2018 with a national roll-out to follow.
 Cinema Accelerator – In addition to our ad-supported consumer-facing digital products, our Cinema Accelerator digital product expands cinema advertising beyond the theater environment to reach digitally-connected moviegoers before and after the movie experience, both online and on mobile devices. Cinema Accelerator identifies moviegoers through exclusive first party data sources including geo-location services, beacons and transaction data for the moviegoers that enter the theaters in our network. Using the moviegoer as our filter, we can target specific demographics, genres or layer on other data to provide to our clients with a match against their target audience. Digital ads are then distributed through multiple channels, including online and mobile banners, online and mobile pre-roll video and Facebook newsfeeds to reach moviegoers wherever they may be seeking entertainment information and content.  
 We sell NCM’s digital products through a digital sales group that is embedded as part of our national and local sales organizations to enable collaborative, integrated selling. We believe that our new and upcoming digital products can be sold with additional in-theater advertisements as integrated marketing packages as discussed in “Business – Our Strategy”. We plan to continue to invest in our digital platform in 2018.
 Our Network
 In-theater advertising and entertainment content is distributed across NCM LLC’s national theater network — the largest digital in-theater network in North America. 
 Through the use of our proprietary DCN and Digital Content Software (“DCS”), we are able to schedule, deliver, play and reconcile advertising and entertainment content for Noovie and the LEN on a national, regional, local, theater and auditorium level.
 The DCN is the combination of a satellite distribution network and a terrestrial management network.  We also employ a variety of technologies that aid in distribution where the satellite delivery is not available to provide uninterrupted service to our network of theaters. The DCN is controlled by our Network Operations Center (“NOC”) located in NCM’s 
 8

headquarters in Centennial, CO, which operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week to proactively monitor and manage approximately 730,000 alarm points and approximately 117,000 hardware devices in movie theaters throughout the country.  DCN dynamically controls the quality, placement, timing of playback and completeness of content within specific auditoriums, and it also allows us to monitor and initiate repairs to the equipment in our digital network of theaters. 
 Advertising and entertainment content for our Noovie pre-show and LEN is uploaded from our NOC to our satellite distribution network and is delivered via multicast technology to the theaters in our network and received by our Alternative Content Engine (“ACE”).  The ACE holds the content until displayed in specified theater auditoriums and lobbies according to contract terms. Each theater auditorium and lobby has a hardware and software architecture that controls the content to be shown. After playback of content, confirmation of playback is returned via satellite to our NOC to be included in “post” reports provided to our advertising clients. 
 According to Nielsen, more than 700 million moviegoers annually attend theaters that are currently under contract to present the Noovie pre-show and LEN programming, including the founding members and over 50 leading national and regional theater network affiliates. A summary of the screens and theaters in our advertising network is set forth in the table below:
 Our Network
 (As of December 28, 2017)
 
 
 | Advertising Network | 
-------------------+---------------------+------
 | Theaters | | Total Screens | | % of Total
Founding Members | | 1,262 | | 16,808 | | 80.6 | %
Network Affiliates | | 419 | | 4,042 | | 19.4 | %
Total | | 1,681 | | 20,850 | | 100.0 | %

 
As of December 28, 2017, our Noovie pre-show was displayed on 100% of network movie screens using digital projectors, with approximately 98% of those screens receiving content through our DCN, representing approximately 98% of our total network attendance. As of December 28, 2017, 19,306, or 93%, of 20,850 total digital screens are equipped with more powerful digital cinema projectors, with the remainder comprised of LCD projectors. Those screens not connected to our DCN display national and regional advertisements on digital projectors with content delivered on USB drives that are shipped to the theaters via overnight delivery services.
 Our Team 
 We had 572 employees as of December 28, 2017. Our employees are located in our Centennial, Colorado headquarters, in our advertising sales offices in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Detroit, and our software development office in Minneapolis.  We also have many local advertising account executives and field maintenance technicians that work primarily from their homes throughout the U.S.  None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that we have a good relationship with our employees.
 Sales, Marketing, Research, and Creative—We sell our in-theater and online advertising products through our national, local and regional and digital sales teams.
 As of December 28, 2017, we had 31 advertising sales and client development related employees (including management and sales support staff) within our national sales group.  During 2017, approximately 27% of the total compensation of the national sales staff was related to bonus or commission, which is based on achieving certain sales targets in order to enhance coordination and teamwork.  Our national sales organization has proven to be profitable and scalable, as we have not added a significant number of sales personnel as our network has expanded. Our national sales staff is located in our sales offices in New York City, Woodland Hills, CA (outside Los Angeles), Chicago and Detroit.
 Our local and regional advertising sales staff, comprised of account directors and telesales representatives, is located throughout the country, with each covering an average of 117 screens per representative. Their responsibility is to sell cinema and digital advertising to local clients as well as larger regional and spot advertisers. During 2017, approximately 67% of the compensation for local and regional sales staff was based on an individual sales commission on collected sales. As of December 28, 2017, we had 201 sales personnel (including management and sales support staff) within our local and regional sales groups, the majority of which work out of their homes located within the markets they sell. In early 2018, we re-envisioned the management of our local and regional sales team and reduced the number of local and regional sales leadership in order to minimize overhead costs.
 9

We market our advertising products through our marketing group located primarily in our New York City sales office. We aggressively market and sell directly to clients as well as advertising agencies, including our participation in the upfront advertising marketplace (the “Upfront”). Based on the success of our Upfront efforts, we believe that we are capturing additional market share from traditional advertising media platforms such as broadcast and cable television. We also believe that enhanced research regarding cinema advertising and expanded analytics about our network has aided our sales efforts by providing our customers with compelling statistical evidence of the superiority of our cinema advertising products relative to other advertising mediums based on metrics such as brand recognition, message recall, and likeability which can enable them to target their customers. Our research team conducts our own proprietary studies, and we also commission third-party market research to assist our sales team. We also promote our advertising products through public relations, social media and advertising in national trade publications. As of December 28, 2017, this team had 33 personnel based primarily in New York that focus on the marketing, research, public relations and corporate development aspects of our business.
 Our media and creative services department, based primarily in our Centennial, CO headquarters, uses state-of-the-art proprietary and non-proprietary technologies and practices to ensure the highest possible cinematic image and sound quality for our Noovie pre-show and LEN programming distributed over our network. We provide a full spectrum of 2-D and 3-D production and post-production services to our advertising clients on a per contract fee basis, or as part of their advertising commitment, including audio enhancements, color correction and noise reduction. We believe that our expertise in creating and optimizing content for cinema playback within our Noovie pre-show has been instrumental in our ability to provide a better experience for movie audiences, as well as enhances our ability to attract and retain our on-screen advertising clients and build and retain relationships with network affiliates. For national and regional clients, our expertise in cinematic production and our ability to tailor advertisements developed for television, online or mobile to the high-definition cinema playback format required for the big screen allows our media team to use existing advertising creative, making it easier to add cinema to their media mix. For local clients, our ability to serve as a creative agency and develop full sight, sound and motion high-definition cinema advertisements to meet their needs and budget reduces a significant barrier to entry for smaller businesses. During 2017, we produced and performed post-production services for approximately 39% of the local advertisements that played across our network. The founding members also engage us for the production of their on-screen concession product advertisements and policy trailers. As of December 28, 2017, we had 38 personnel that focused on the media, production and creative services aspects of our business.
 Operations, Planning and Digital Gaming—As of December 28, 2017, we had 128 employees based primarily in our Centennial, CO headquarters that focused on the sales operations, planning, network operations and digital gaming development aspects of our business. 
 Enterprise Information Systems, Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Affiliate Partnerships and Administration—As of December 28, 2017, we had 141 employees based primarily in our Centennial, CO headquarters that focused on the Enterprise Information Systems, Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Affiliate Partnerships and Administration aspects of our business.
Competition
 Our advertising business competes in the estimated $197 billion U.S. advertising industry with many other forms of marketing media, including television, radio, print, internet, mobile and outdoor display advertising. While cinema advertising represents a small portion of the overall advertising industry today, we believe it is well positioned to capitalize on the shift of advertising spending away from traditional media, in particular television where consumers can skip advertisements through DVRs and other new digital technology, to newer and more targeted forms of media. 
 Our advertising business also competes with many other providers of cinema advertising, which vary substantially in size. As the largest cinema advertising network in the U.S., we believe that we are able to generate economies of scale, operating efficiencies and enhanced opportunities for our clients to reach an engaged movie audience on both a national and local level that allow us to better compete for premium video dollars in the larger advertising marketplace.
 Competitive Strengths
 We believe that several strengths position us well to compete in an increasingly fragmented media landscape.
 Superior National Advertising Network
 We believe that our cinema advertising network is an attractive option for marketers on both a national and local level, and delivers measurable results for our clients that are comparable, and superior, to the television, online and mobile, or other video advertising networks that we compete against in the marketplace. 
 10

Extensive National Market Coverage—Our contractual agreements with the founding members and network affiliates provide long-term exclusive access (subject to limited exceptions) to sell cinema advertising across the largest network of digitally-equipped theaters in the U.S. This allows us to offer advertisers the broad reach and national scale that they need in an increasingly fragmented media marketplace.
 As of December 28, 2017:
  
• | Our advertising network consisted of 20,850 screens (16,808 operated by the founding members) located in 1,681 theaters (1,262 operated by the founding members) in 48 states and the District of Columbia, including each of the top 25 and 50 DMAs®, and 187 DMAs® in total;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Approximately 73% of our screens (77% of our attendance) were located within the top 50 U.S. DMAs® and approximately 32% of our screens (37% of our attendance) were located within the top 10 U.S. DMAs®. Theaters within our network represented approximately 69%, 67%, and 67% of the total theater attendance in theaters that present advertising in the top 10, top 25 and top 50 U.S. DMAs®, respectively and 62% for all DMAs®, providing a very attractive platform for national advertisers who want exposure in larger markets or on a national basis;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Our total annual network theater attendance was approximately 655.8 million (545.6 million from the founding members), which decreased 4.8% compared to 2016. Our network of modern theaters represented approximately 57.3% of the total U.S. theater attendance, with some of the most highly attended theaters in the industry, as measured by screens per location and attendance per screen; 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | The average screens per theater in our network was 12.4 screens, 1.8 times the U.S. theater industry average, and the aggregate annual attendance per screen of theaters included in our network during 2017 was 31,453, versus the U.S. theater industry average attendance per indoor screen of 28,748, using metrics reported by the National Association of Theatre Owners (“NATO”).
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Scalable, State-of-the-Art Digital Content Distribution Technology—Our use of the combination of satellite and terrestrial network technology, combined with the design and functionality of our DCS and NOC infrastructure, makes our network efficient and scalable and also allows us to target specific audiences and provide advertising scheduling flexibility and reporting. We offer short lead times by accelerating the delivery time of media from proposal to on-screen across our network of movie theaters nationwide. National, local and regional advertisers are able to run their ads in the Noovie pre-show less than 72 hours following the proposal (comparable to TV), which is a significant improvement over the cinema industry’s traditional turn-around time frame and gives businesses that rely on time-sensitive promotional advertising strategies, such as car dealerships, retail stores and Quick Service Restaurants (“QSR”), the opportunity to take advantage of the power of cinema.
 This scalability of our distribution technology has allowed us to expand our cinema advertising network with minimal additional capital expenditures or personnel, and we expect to benefit from this scalability in the future as we add new theaters from the founding members, our existing network affiliate relationships and the addition of new network affiliates. 
 Millennials, Content and Data
 We believe that the Millennial audiences (age 18-34) in our network of theaters, the premium content of Hollywood films and our Noovie pre-show, and the advances we have made in cinema advertising data all give us a competitive advantage in the media marketplace.
 Access to a Highly Attractive, Engaged Audience—We offer advertisers the ability to reach highly-coveted target demographics, including young, affluent, and educated moviegoers. According to Nielsen Cinema Audience Reports for 2017, 56% of the NCM LLC audience were between the ages of 12-34, compared to 54% in 2016.  Further, 42% of our moviegoers have a household income greater than $100,000 (versus 30% of the general population) and 39% have received a Bachelor’s degree or higher (versus 30% of the general population) according to the 2017 Doublebase GfK MRI Study. 
 Because of the impact of cinema’s state-of-the-art immersive video and audio presentation, we also believe that movie audiences are highly engaged with the advertising and entertainment content that they view in our distraction-free theater environment. According to industry research, cinema advertising has significantly higher recall rates than advertising shown on television. And, cinema is one of the few advertising mediums where the ability to skip or turn off the marketing messages is limited. 
 Innovative, Branded Pre-Feature Content—The film content created by Hollywood studios is considered by many to be the finest entertainment content in the world, which creates a highly-desirable advertising environment for brands. We believe that our entertainment and advertising pre-feature program, Noovie, provides a high-quality entertainment experience 
 11

for theater audiences and an effective marketing platform for advertisers. By partnering with leading media, entertainment, technology and other companies, we are able to provide better original content for our audience and more impact for the advertiser. Because we offer local and national “pods” within our Noovie pre-show, we are consistent with the placement of ads on television networks, which allows us to be more easily integrated into traditional sight-sound-and-motion media buys. 
 Superior Audience Measurability and Targeting—As with many other advertising mediums, we are measured by third-party research companies such as Nielsen Holdings PLC that provide us with the percentage of the total attendance in their seats at various times during our Noovie pre-show. What differentiates us from other advertising mediums, however, is that we also receive monthly attendance information by film, by rating and by screen for all of the founding member theaters and by flight and by location for the theaters operated by our network affiliates, which allows us to report the actual audience size for each showing of a film, including our Noovie pre-show. We believe that the ability to provide this level of detailed information to our clients gives us a distinct competitive advantage over traditional media platforms whose measurement is based only on extrapolations of a very small sample of the total audience.
 During 2017, we continued to invest in our inventory management systems to expand our ability to target audiences by film genre. Our Cinema Audience Targeting Optimizer (“CATO”) now allows advertisers to go beyond targeting by the Motion Picture Association of America (“MPAA”) rating (G/PG, PG13 and R) to build media schedules at the film and genre level, more effectively targeting a brand’s key audience by matching it to the movie titles and/or genres that can best deliver that audience in a given campaign schedule. 
 In 2017, we also continued to invest in the development of our cloud-based Data Management Platform (“DMP”) which we believe will allow us to provide even more robust campaign data and analytics to our clients. To further enhance the connection between brands and movie audiences, we accumulate audience data from several sources within our new DMP.  This audience data is then leveraged alone or alongside data science capabilities to offer highly effective campaigns, audience insights and closed loop attribution reporting. We will continue to enhance the capabilities of the platform in 2018 by continuing to add data sources, segments and define and redefine needs.
 Integrated Marketing and Digital Products
 Our ability to bundle our on-screen advertising opportunities with integrated lobby, online and mobile marketing products allow us to offer advertisers multiple touchpoints to reach movie audiences before, during and after the film to execute true 360-degree marketing programs. We believe these multiple marketing impressions throughout the entire entertainment experience allows our advertisers to extend the exposure for their brands and products and create a more engaging relationship with movie audiences in every stage of their movie journey. Additionally, the digital products provide us with valuable, exclusive first party data which can be used by in-theater customers to better attract and interact with their target market or sold to new customers.
Contractual Theater Circuit Partner and Advertiser Relationships
 Our exclusive multi-year contractual relationships with our founding members and network affiliates allow us to offer advertisers a national network with the scale, flexibility and targeting to meet their marketing needs. Our exclusive multi-year contractual relationships with our content partners and PSA sponsors, as well as our agreements to satisfy the founding members’ on-screen marketing obligations to their beverage concessionaires, provide us with a significant upfront revenue commitment, accounting for approximately 30% of our total revenue for the year ended December 28, 2017. In addition, our participation in the annual advertising Upfront marketplace has allowed us to secure significant annual upfront commitments from national advertisers looking to secure premium cinema inventory.
Strong Operating Margins with Limited Capital Requirements
 Our annual Adjusted OIBDA margins have been consistently strong, ranging from approximately 48% to 52% over the last five years.  (Refer to “Item 6. Selected Financial Data-Notes to the Selected Historical Financial and Operating Data” for a discussion of the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA margin, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, and the reconciliation to operating income.)  In addition, the founding members and their Digital Cinema Integration Partners, LLC (“DCIP”) joint venture invested substantial capital to deploy, expand and upgrade the network equipment within their theaters including newer and higher quality digital cinema equipment. Due to the network equipment investments made in recent years by the founding members and network affiliates (in some cases through the DCIP digital cinema implementation joint venture) in new and acquired theaters and the requirements in the ESAs for the founding members to make future investments for equipment replacements, and the scalable nature of our NOC and other infrastructure, we do not expect to make major capital investments to grow our operations as our network of theaters expands. 
 12

Our capital expenditures have ranged from approximately 2% to 3% of revenues over the last five years. For the year ended December 28, 2017, our capital expenditures were $12.3 million, of which only $1.9 million primarily related to investments in network equipment to add new network affiliate theaters. We believe our expected level of Adjusted OIBDA and capital expenditures should provide us with the strategic and financial flexibility to pursue the further expansion of our national theater network, invest in other growth opportunities and continue to make dividend payments to our stockholders.
 Our Strategy
 We are continuing to pursue a growth strategy that involves growing our network affiliate partnerships, growing on-screen revenue, expanding digital product offerings, ensuring that we are the first choice for our customers, developing our people and capabilities, and allocating resources to strategy.
Grow the Business
 We intend to focus on growing our business in the following strategic ways.
 Grow Affiliate Partnerships—Our relationships with our exhibitors are a key and renewed focus of our business. In 2017, our Affiliate Partnership team is dedicated to serving the needs of our founding member theater circuits and our more than 50 network affiliates nationwide. We continuously seek to expand our theater circuit customer base and add new network affiliate partners to our network that will allow us to increase our revenue by increasing the number of impressions we have available to sell to advertisers. It is also important to note that, under the terms of the ESAs and common unit adjustment agreement with the founding members and our network affiliate agreements, all new theaters built or acquired (subject to existing advertising sales agreements) by the founding members or network affiliates will become part of our network. Since NCM Inc.’s February 2007 IPO, the founding members have added approximately 3,700 net new screens and 46 network affiliates have been added to our network with approximately 3,100 screens. During 2017, we added 302 net screens from the founding members and network affiliates. We expect this expansion to continue to improve our geographic coverage and enhance our ability to compete with other national advertising mediums, which will allow our exhibitor customers to maximize the advertising value of their audiences.
 Grow On-Screen Revenue—We plan to continue our successful strategy of selling our inventory like premium video in the larger advertising marketplace, once again utilizing the upfront advertising marketplace to maximize our use of inventory. This Upfront strategy has yielded positive results over the past six years, and we believe that the increased market awareness among media buyers and clients raises our credibility as a medium and allows us to gain upfront commitments traditionally made exclusively to cable and broadcast television networks, and more recently online and mobile networks. Further, we believe it will help to increase our share of video advertising spending by increasing the number of clients and client industries that buy our network. Over time, this greater shift toward more Upfront commitments allows us to bundle several flights throughout the year and stabilize month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter CPM volatility by increasing overall inventory utilization and balancing that utilization throughout the year. Consistent with the television industry upfront booking practices, a portion of our upfront commitments have cancellation options or options to reduce the amount that advertisers may purchase that could reduce what is ultimately spent by clients that have made upfront commitments and we would need to rely on the scatter market to replace those commitments.
 During our Upfront presentation in May of 2017 as part of the TV Upfront week, we announced that we were re-imagining our cinema pre-show with the launch of Noovie and introducing new digital channels for movie audiences. Noovie was launched in September 2017, and we are continuing to enhance audience engagement and build the Noovie brand through cinema and social media marketing, all the while remaining focused on maintaining the commercial value of our pre-show. 
 We also intend to increase our market share of local and regional advertising spending by aggressively pursuing further integration into agency planning and buying tools, such as our relationships with STRATA and Mediaocean, leaders in media buying and selling software, which allows agencies to buy cinema advertising in the National Spot marketplace. By making NCM an option in this and other industrywide and in-house agency planning and buying systems, we believe we can remove barriers to entry by incorporating cinema into media plans and tapping into new pools of advertising dollars. 
 Fortify, Expand and Scale Our Digital Business—We intend to continue to upgrade our existing digital offerings as well as expand our Noovie digital ecosystem to include additional products that will engage movie audiences with exclusive and unique content, commerce, and gaming opportunities. During 2017 we began development of our Noovie ARcade and Noovie apps which are expected to be released in 2018. These apps will allow us to capture exclusive first party data on our viewers. As we continue to create our own NCM owned-and-operated ad inventory across our suite of digital products, we also plan to build our own foundational capabilities for digital ad buying, selling and serving through the development of 
 13

“Cinema Accelerator 2.0,” an enhanced version of our existing Cinema Accelerator product. This upgraded version will also provide increased amounts of and better quality first party data. Cinema Accelerator currently identifies moviegoers’ mobile devices as they enter a theater, and re-engages them with a brand’s messages wherever they are consuming content — on mobile devices, social media, or online. 
Reinvent the Lobby—As our founding member and network affiliate theater circuit partners continue to reinvent their lobby business, we plan to work with them and follow their lead to leverage technology partnerships and stabilize other lobby inventory to make the lobby a better source of advertising revenue for both our advertising customers and our circuit partners.
Be the First Choice for Customers
 Our approach is to always strive to be the first choice for our customers, including our advertising and agency customers, our exhibitors, and movie studios. By offering innovative on-screen, in-lobby and digital cinema advertising solutions to connect brands to unique, engaged and valuable young adult audiences at scale, we believe we can offer our advertiser and agency customers a valuable and effective marketing option that cannot be duplicated in any other medium. As the first choice for our customers, we can continue to expand our advertising client base and increase our market share of U.S. advertising spending. Our national sales team was successful in adding 37 clients in 2017 that were first time clients or had not advertised with us since our IPO. These new clients added in 2017 included companies in the airlines, apparel, auto parts and services, college, confectionery, electronic stores, financial products and services, game and toy stores, home product, hotels and resorts, import auto, insurance, internet site, medical practitioners, movie studio, personal care product, pet stores and services, prepared food, family restaurant, live events and shows, toy and video game industries. Despite this growth, we believe there are still thousands of potential clients that currently advertise on other mediums such as television but have yet to advertise on our network. These strategies are designed to expand our relationships with existing advertising clients and broaden our advertising client base in new and existing client industries.
Develop People and Capabilities
 Our success is tied to the quality of our management and staff.  In order to ensure that we retain and attract high quality personnel, we seek to foster and maintain a culture that focuses on teamwork, personal growth, inclusion and diversity. We will continue to make meaningful investments in internal and external training programs for our management and staff to ensure that our personnel have, or build, the skillsets necessary to support our evolution and growth objectives. We have also adopted a succession plan that includes short-term and long-term planning elements to allow us to successfully continue operations should any of our senior management team become unavailable to us. 
Resources to Strategy
 We will continue to assess and eliminate off-target resources for a strategic focus on the future of NCM. We will be allocating resources to continuity and growth, with a focus from our staff on financial responsibility with company resources.
Dividend Policy
 Our dividend policy is described in “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividend Policy”.
 Intellectual Property Rights
 We have been granted a perpetual, royalty-free license from the founding members to use certain proprietary software for the delivery of digital advertising and other content through our DCN to screens in the U.S. We have made improvements to this software since the IPO date and we own those improvements exclusively, except for improvements that were developed jointly by us and the founding members.
 We have secured U.S. trademark registrations for NCM, National CineMedia, and NCM Media Networks.  It is our practice to defend our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, including the associated goodwill, from infringement by others. We are aware that other persons or entities may use names and marks containing variations of our registered trademarks and other marks and trade names. Potentially, claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, such as trademark infringement, could be brought against us by the users of those other names and marks. If any such infringement claim were to prove successful in preventing us from either using or prohibiting a competitor’s use of our registered trademarks or other marks or trade names, our ability to build brand identity could be negatively impacted.
 Government Regulation
 Currently, we are not subject to regulations specific to the sale and distribution of cinema advertising. We are subject to federal, state and local laws that govern businesses generally such as wage and hour and worker compensation laws.
 14

Available Information
 We maintain a website at www.ncm.com, on which we will post free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports under the heading “Investor Relations” located at the bottom of the home page as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  We also regularly post information about the Company on the Investor Relations page. We do not incorporate the information on our website into this document and you should not consider any information on, or that can be accessed through, our website as part of this document.  You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the Securities and Exchange Commission Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  The SEC also maintains a website that contains our reports and other information at www.sec.gov.
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
 Shown below are the names, ages as of the filing date of this Form 10-K, and current positions of our executive officers. There are no family relationships between any of the persons listed below, or between any of such persons and any of the directors of the Company or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to become a director or executive officer of the Company.
 
 
Name | Age | Position 
-----------------------+-----+---------------------------------------------------
Andrew J. England | 53 | Chief Executive Officer and Director 
Clifford E. Marks | 56 | President 
Katherine L. Scherping | 58 | Chief Financial Officer 
Sarah Kinnick Hilty | 47 | Senior Vice President and General Counsel 
Scott D. Felenstein | 49 | Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer

 Andrew J. England. Mr. England was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Director of NCM, Inc. on January 1, 2016. Mr. England has a long career in marketing, previously serving as the Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of MillerCoors, LLC from 2010 until July 2015.  From 2008 to 2010, Mr. England served as the Chief Marketing Officer of the then newly formed MillerCoors, LLC.  From 2006 to 2008 he served as Chief Marketing Officer of Coors Brewing Co.  Prior to that, Mr. England was Vice President and General Manager of Hershey’s Snacks division, Director of the Reese’s Brand, and carried out various marketing and brand management roles for over ten years at Nabisco Biscuit Company and Cadbury Schweppes.  Mr. England holds a Master of Business Administration degree from Stanford University and a bachelor’s degree in Engineering Science from Durham University in the United Kingdom.
 Clifford E. Marks. Mr. Marks was appointed President of NCM, Inc. in May 2016. Prior to his current position, Mr. Marks served as President of Sales and Marketing of NCM, Inc. in February 2007 and held those same positions with NCM LLC since March 2005. He has been an advertising, marketing and sales professional for 25 years. Mr. Marks also served as president of sales and marketing with Regal Entertainment Group’s media subsidiary, Regal CineMedia Corporation, from May 2002 to May 2005. Before joining Regal CineMedia, Mr. Marks was a senior vice president at ESPN/ABC Sports where he oversaw its advertising sales organization from 1998 to May 2002.
 Katherine L. Scherping. Ms. Scherping was appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2016. Prior to joining NCM, Inc., Ms. Scherping served as interim President and Chief Executive Officer of QCE LLC and subsidiaries (d/b/a Quiznos) since June 2016 to July 2016 and as Chief Financial Officer from December 2013 to July 2016.  From October 2011 through July 2016, Ms. Scherping was a consultant for Deloitte LLP, providing leadership training to partners and other executives.  From June 2005 to July 2011, she served as Chief Financial Officer of Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc.  Ms. Scherping holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Northern Illinois University and is a certified public accountant.
 Sarah Kinnick Hilty. Ms. Hilty was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel in February 2018. Prior to joining NCM, Inc., Ms. Hilty served as Deputy General Counsel - Corporate of CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd. since 2006 leading a team responsible for legal corporate enterprise matters including mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures; securities compliance; treasury and finance activities, real estate, and board and subsidiary governance. Prior to working at CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd., Ms. Hilty worked for Hogan & Hartson LLP as an associate from 1996 to 2004 and a partner from 2004 to 2006. Ms. Hilty holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of Colorado Boulder and a Juris Doctorate from Stanford Law School.
 Scott D. Felenstein. Mr. Felenstein was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer in April 2017. Prior to joining NCM, Inc., Mr. Felenstein served as Executive Vice President, National Advertising Sales for Discovery Communications, Inc. since 2013 and Senior Vice President, National Advertising Sales for Discovery Communications, Inc. 
 15

since 2000. Prior to working at Discovery Communications, Inc., Mr. Felenstein served on the digital ad sales team at Excite@Home and worked as an account executive at CBS Sports. Mr. Felenstein holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communication from the State University of New York, Albany.
