Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business
--------+---------

 
We are a biopharmaceutical company focused primarily on the development of therapies to treat prevalent inflammatory conditions for which there are limited treatment options.
 
Our product portfolio is primarily based on the work of Dr. David Bar-Or, the Director of Trauma Research LLC for the Swedish Medical Center located in Englewood, CO, St. Anthony Hospital located in Lakewood, CO and the Medical Center of Plano, Plano Texas. For over two decades, while directing these trauma research laboratories, Dr. Bar-Or and his staff have built a robust portfolio of product candidates focusing on inflammatory conditions. Our initial clinical programs were selected from Dr. Bar-Or’s research based on certain criteria, particularly the ability to advance the candidates rapidly into late-stage clinical trials. The benchmarks used to build our pipeline were products with: (i) potential indications to address large underserved markets; (ii) strong intellectual property protection and the potential for market and data exclusivity; and (iii) a well-defined regulatory path to marketing approval.
 
We are primarily developing compounds that decrease inflammation by (i) inhibiting specific pro-inflammatory compounds by affecting specific pathways at the protein expression and at the transcription level; (ii) activating specific phosphatase or depleting available phosphate needed for the inflammation process; and (iii) decreasing vascular permeability.
 
Corporate History
 
Our predecessor, DMI Life Sciences, Inc., or Life Sciences, was incorporated in Delaware in December 2008. In March 2010, Life Sciences was merged with a subsidiary of Chay Enterprises, Inc. As a result of this merger, Life Sciences stockholders became the controlling stockholders of Chay Enterprises. Following the merger, we reincorporated in Delaware as Ampio Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in March 2010.
 
In April 2015, Luoxis Diagnostics, Inc. and Vyrix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., each previously a subsidiary of ours, merged with Rosewind Corporation, or Rosewind. Following this transaction, we held 81.5% of the common stock of Rosewind, which changed its name to Aytu BioScience, Inc., or Aytu, in June 2015. In January 2016, we distributed a majority of our shares of common stock of Aytu to our shareholders on a pro rata basis. This transaction changed our ownership from 81.5% down to 8.6% of Aytu’s outstanding shares on that date. In May and October of 2016, Aytu completed offerings which were dilutive to the Aytu shares we held. We reclassified our remaining investment in Aytu as a trading security in July of 2016. The Aytu security is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with the change in fair value recorded as an unrealized loss on the statement of operations.
 
Due to the transaction described above, the financial statements for Ampio and Aytu were deconsolidated in the beginning of 2016. Therefore, the financial statements now reflect the results of the Aytu operations in discontinued operations for 2015. As of December 31, 2017, our ownership in Aytu’s outstanding shares was less than 1.0%.
 
Our Product Pipeline
 
AMPION
 
Ampion for Osteoarthritis and Other Inflammatory Conditions
 
Ampion is the < 5 kDa ultrafiltrate of 5% Human Serum Albumin, or HSA, a Food and Drug Administration, or FDA approved biologic product. Ampion is a non-steroidal, low molecular weight, anti-inflammatory biologic, which has the potential to be used in a wide variety of acute and chronic inflammatory conditions, as well as immune-mediated diseases. Ampion and its known components have demonstrated a broad spectrum of anti-inflammatory and immune modulatory activity which support the mechanism of action. We have published several scientific papers and peer-reviewed publications on the mechanism of Ampion.
 
We are currently developing Ampion as an intra-articular injection to treat the signs and symptoms of severe osteoarthritis of the knee, or OAK. Osteoarthritis is a growing epidemic in the United States and symptomatic OAK is expected to impact 1 in 2 Americans. OAK is a progressive disease characterized by gradual degradation and loss of cartilage due to inflammation of the soft tissue and bony structures of the knee joint. Progression of the most severe form of OAK leaves patients with little to no treatment options other than a total knee arthroplasty. The FDA has stated that severe OAK is an ‘unmet medical need’ with no licensed therapies for this indication.
 
We have conducted multiple clinical studies which have included over 2,000 patients in the development of Ampion.
 

4
-

Market Opportunity
 
Osteoarthritis, or OA, is the most common form of arthritis, affecting over 100 million people in the United States with over 48 million people suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee. It is a progressive disorder of the joints involving degradation of the intra-articular cartilage, joint lining, ligaments, and bone. The incidence of developing osteoarthritis of the knee over a lifetime is approximately 45%. Certain risk factors in conjunction with natural wear and tear lead to the breakdown of cartilage. Osteoarthritis is caused by inflammation of the soft tissue and bony structures of the joint, which worsens over time and leads to progressive thinning of articular cartilage. Other progressive effects include narrowing of the joint space, synovial membrane thickening, osteophyte formation and increased density of subchondral bone. The global osteoarthritis of the knee market currently addresses moderate to moderately severe OA and is over $3.0 billion. We believe that this market does not account for the underserved severely diseased patients. The global demand for osteoarthritis of the knee treatment is expected to be fueled by aging demographics and increased awareness of treatment options. Despite the size and growth of the osteoarthritis of the knee market, only a few treatment options currently exist, especially in the severely diseased patient population.
Competition
 
The currently available treatments for osteoarthritis of the knee include oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, opioids, pain patches, intra-articular, or IA, corticosteroids, and IA hyaluronic acid, or HA, injections. Despite wide availability and years of clinical use, none of these agents are adequately meeting the needs of the market. In May 2013, the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, or AAOS, issued their second edition of clinical practice guidelines for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. The AAOS was unable to recommend for or against the use of intra-articular corticosteroid injections as studies designed to indicate efficacy are inconclusive. Further, the AAOS was also unable to recommend for or against the use of acetaminophen, opioids, or pain patches as the efficacy studies in this area are also inconclusive. Most importantly, the AAOS does not recommend (with a strong ‘strength of recommendation’) the use of hyaluronic acid injections as, in the AAOS’ assessment, the clinical evidence does not support their use. This clinical practice guideline underscores a pervasive unmet need in the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee given few accepted and available treatments. We believe Ampion is a novel treatment option that, if approved, would be the first non-steroidal, non-hyaluronic-based intra-articular treatment available for the treatment of pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee.
 
AIK Trial
 
In 2011 and 2012, we conducted our Phase I Ampion trial in Australia. The AIK study established that Ampion was safe for human use and showed efficacy treating patients with pain due to OA of the knee. The trial was conducted in Australia because the biologics legislation governing the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration, or TGA, allowed us to move Ampion directly into human clinical trials as the TGA recognized that HSA has an already established safety profile in humans by virtue of its longstanding commercial use. The AIK trial was conducted in patients diagnosed with moderately-severe to severe osteoarthritis of the knee.
 
SPRING Pivotal Trial (AP-003-A)
 
In the second half of 2013, we announced the results of our positive single injection Phase III pivotal trial, the SPRING study. This study of Ampion focused on the treatment of pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee. The results of this study establish the safety and efficacy of Ampion for reduction of pain due to OA of the knee at 12 weeks after a single intra-articular injection. The SPRING study was a U.S. multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle controlled trial. Three hundred twenty-nine patients were randomized to receive one of two doses (4 mL or 10 mL) of Ampion or corresponding saline control via intra-articular injection. Both doses of Ampion, 4 mL and 10 mL, showed a statistically significant reduction in pain compared to the control, and there were no significant differences between the efficacy of the two Ampion doses. As such, the lowest required dose, 4 mL, was selected as the optimal dose. Patients who received Ampion experienced, on average, greater than a 40% reduction in pain from baseline at 12 weeks. Patients who received Ampion also showed a significant improvement in function and quality of life (quality of life was assessed using the Patient Global Assessment, or PGA) compared to patients who received saline control at 12 weeks. Furthermore, the trial included severely diseased patients (defined as Kellgren-Lawrence IV). From this patient population, those patients who received Ampion had a significantly greater reduction in pain than those who received the saline control. Ampion was well tolerated with minimal adverse events, or AEs, reported across Ampion and saline groups in the study. There were no drug-related serious adverse events, or SAEs.
 
STEP Trial (AP-004)
 
In early 2014, we announced the STEP study clinical trial of Ampion for the treatment of pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee. The STEP study was a randomized, vehicle controlled, double-blind study in which 538 patients with osteoarthritis knee pain were randomized to receive either a 4-mL single injection of Ampion or saline control. A deviation of temperature protocols occurred during the drug distribution process of the STEP Study, which interfered with the efficacy analysis. There were minimal adverse events reported and there were no drug-related SAEs in the STEP study.
 
STRUT Trial (AP-007)
 
In mid-2014, we announced the beginning of a Phase I multiple injection study, the STRUT study, at a single site for patients with pain due to mostly severe or very severe osteoarthritis of the knee. Patients showed a 65% improvement in pain and a 74% improvement in function from baseline at one-month post-injection. No drug-related SAEs were reported. Following these results, we initiated the randomized, double-blind, vehicle controlled (Phase II) portion of the multiple injection STRUT study.
 

5
-

 

In 2015, we announced the results from the Phase II STRUT study, which showed that patients who received Ampion demonstrated a significant improvement in pain when compared to patients who received the saline control. Patients who received Ampion demonstrated, on average, a 64% reduction in pain at 20 weeks compared to baseline. The safety profile of Ampion in this trial was highly favorable, with no treatment-related SAEs. The results of this study establish the safety and efficacy of Ampion for reduction of pain at 20 weeks after a series of three IA injections administered two weeks apart in the knee of patients with OA.
 
STRIDE Trial (AP-008)
 
In late 2014, we enrolled 342 patients in the vehicle controlled, multiple injection, multi-center STRIDE study. Enrollment in this study differed from previous trials in both disease severity and patient Body Mass Index, or BMI. In the STRIDE study, 68% of patients had severe osteoarthritis (Kellgren-Lawrence IV, or KL), compared to 23% in the SPRING study. Patients in this study were also significantly heavier and had a larger BMI than in any previous trial. In mid-2015, we announced that, although patients showed a marked reduction in pain from baseline to 20 weeks when treated with Ampion, the study did not reach its primary endpoint which was a comparison of Ampion to saline.
 
PIVOT Trial (AP-003-B)
 
In September of 2015, the FDA awarded us a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, for the second PHASE III pivotal trial of Ampion (PIVOT study). A SPA can significantly de-risk the path to market due to insufficient data or unexpected safety concerns. The PIVOT study, which included 480 patients, was a randomized, double-blind, saline-controlled, PHASE III clinical study conducted at 20 sites across the United States to examine the safety and efficacy of Ampion intra-articular injection in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of 4 mL Ampion versus 4 mL placebo intra-articular injection in improving knee pain, when administered to patients suffering from OA of the knee. The results stating the PIVOT study did not meet its primary endpoint were announced in June 2016. The primary endpoint was the change in WOMAC A pain score at week 12 as compared to saline. Although the PIVOT study did not meet its primary endpoint, it did show a large reduction in pain from Baseline over 12 weeks. Ampion improved (reduced) WOMAC A pain scores significantly over baseline in all KL grades (reductions in pain: KL 2: 52%, KL 3: 36%, and KL 4: 33%). The KL scale defines the clinical stage of OA of the knee. Additional analyses included adverse events, Patient Global Assessment, and responder status defined as 20% improvement in pain at week 12. Ampion was demonstrated to be safe and well-tolerated with no drug-related serious adverse events and an overall adverse event rate that was similar in both the Ampion and saline groups. We observed the largest differentiation between Ampion and saline in the most severe osteoarthritis of the knee patients (KL 4), where no available non-surgical therapy exists. KL 4 patients have been historically excluded from osteoarthritis of the knee trials because of the advanced stage of their condition.
 
AP-003-C
 
In December 2017, we reported positive results for both the primary and secondary endpoints of our confirmatory single injection Phase III clinical trial of 168 patients. The 12-week study evaluated the responder rate of Ampion-treated patients as defined by the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (“OARSI”) Standing Committee for Clinical Trials Response Criteria Initiative (OMERACT), which included pain, function, and patient global assessment in support of a label for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of severe OAK. Ampion met its primary endpoint with 71% of Ampion treated patients meeting the OMERACT-OARSI responder criteria, which exceeds the physician reported threshold of 30% for a meaningful treatment in severe osteoarthritis of the knee. Responders experienced, on average, a 53% decrease in pain as measured by WOMAC A and a 50% improvement in function as measured by WOMAC C and a 45% improvement in quality of life as measured by Patient Global Assessment (PGA). In the secondary endpoints, Ampion treated patients achieved statistical significance in a composite endpoint of pain and function from baseline in both categories at 12 weeks, which was supported by an increase in quality of life as measured by patient global assessment (PGA). When treated with Ampion, patients experienced significant improvement in a composite endpoint of pain and function compared to all severely diseased saline-treated patients in historical Ampion phase III clinical trials. We believe this data supports Ampion’s ability to address an unmet medical need and provide patients with a meaningful, non-opioid treatment that improves pain, function and quality of life.
 
OSTEOARTHRITIS OF THE HAND
 
In May of 2016, we announced that patient dosing had begun in the exploratory, PHASE I clinical trial evaluating the safety of a single intra-articular injection of Ampion in adults with pain due to osteoarthritis of the hand, specifically of the first carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb (basal thumb joint). This trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center study in one of the largest hand surgery clinics in the United States. In September 2016, we announced completion of enrollment. The results of the trial were 15 patients enrolled: 9 in the Ampion arm and 6 in the saline arm. Ampion intra-articular injection into the basal thumb joint was well tolerated. Three AEs were reported, all of mild severity (two AEs with saline-one unrelated and one possibly related and one AE with Ampion-unrelated). At week four, improvements in pain following treatment with Ampion were reported compared to baseline. 66.7% of patients treated with Ampion had an improvement in pain on the AUSCAN A index. Conversely, in the saline group, 33% improved, one did not change and three deteriorated. Greater improvement in pain reduction from Ampion appeared to occur when the severity of OA was greater.
 
We are currently focusing our resources and clinical development efforts on Ampion to treat osteoarthritis of the knee, our highest priority, and plan to defer the next stage of clinical trials for osteoarthritis of the hand, pending further progress on Ampion related to osteoarthritis of the knee.
 

6
-

Clinical Development Pathway
 
In late 2017, we announced publication on an integrated analysis of 417 severely diseased OAK patients, thought to be the largest study treating this patient population, as a feature article in Orthopedics, an international peer-reviewed journal. The publication detailed the safety and tolerability of a single intra-articular injection of Ampion into the knee and demonstrated that patients are significantly more likely to respond to treatment with Ampion with a longer duration of response compared to saline. This data suggests that Ampion can satisfy an unmet medical need for a population with few therapeutic treatment options and a debilitating symptomatic disease.
 
Additionally, we announced the beginning of an Open Label Extension, or OLE, study of the AP-003-C trial. The OLE study offers patients an opportunity to receive repeat injections of Ampion after they have completed the pivotal clinical trial. The OLE study will address the regulatory requirements to allow an expanded commercial label for repeat administration of Ampion.
 
We also intend to study Ampion for therapeutic applications other than osteoarthritis of the knee and hand. We may engage development partners to study Ampion in various conditions including: (i) acute and chronic inflammatory conditions; (ii) degenerative joint diseases; and (iii) respiratory disorders. Based on the continuing evaluation, we are also studying Ampion’s effects on cellular behavior to indicate potential effects on disease modification across multiple conditions. If successful, we believe these additional formulations and potential therapeutic indications will supplement the Ampion clinical portfolio, and will enable clinical applications in large therapeutic markets where there are significant unmet needs.
 
OPTINA
 
Optina for Diabetic Macular Edema
 
Optina is a low-dose formulation of danazol that we are developing to treat diabetic macular edema, or DME. Danazol is a synthetic derivative of modified testosterone ethisterone, and we believe it affects vascular endothelial cell linkage in a biphasic manner. At low doses, danazol decreases vascular permeability by increasing the barrier function of endothelial cells. The lipophilic low-molecular-weight weak androgen has the potential to treat multiple angiopathies. Steroid hormones control a variety of functions through slow genomic and rapid non-genomic mechanisms. Danazol immediately increases intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate through the rapid activation of membrane-associated androgen, steroid binding globulin, and calcium channel receptors. At lower concentrations, such as Optina, danazol binds to androgen and steroid binding globulin receptors stimulating the formation of a cortical actin ring. At higher concentrations, activation of the calcium channels shifts the balance towards stress fiber formation and increases vascular permeability.
 
When organized into a cortical ring, filamentous actin, or f-actin, Optina increases the barrier function of endothelial cells by tethering adhesion molecule complexes to the cytoskeleton. In this orientation, increased cortical actin improves tight junctions which strengthen cell-to-cell adhesions. Formation of the cortical actin ring thereby restricts leakage across the cell membrane.
 
Market Opportunity
 
Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes mellitus affect 26 million people in the United States. One of the many symptoms of diabetes is local and systemic inflammation of the microvascular system. Diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes and is characterized by damage to the blood vessels of the retina and can either be proliferative or non-proliferative. Proliferative damage occurs when a reduction in oxygen levels in the retina due to impaired glucose metabolism causes fragile blood vessels to grow in the vitreous humor. Non-proliferative damage occurs when existing vessels experience poor endothelial cell linkage due to increased blood glucose levels and hypertension. Macular edema is the most common form of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. In diabetic macular edema, prolonged hyperglycemia compromises endothelial cell linkage leading to vascular permeability. The leakage of fluid, solutes, proteins and immune cells cause the macula to swell and thicken. This leads to damage of the central retinal tissue and can significantly impair sharp central vision. The prevalence of diabetes is 11.3% of the population above the age of 20, with an annual incidence of 1.9 million cases in the United States alone. In this population, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is estimated at 30% of patients inflicted by the disease for 20 years or more.

7
-

Competition
 
There are no orally administered treatments for DME currently available nor to our knowledge are any being tested in clinical trials. The current standard of care in the United States for the treatment of DME is laser photocoagulation. The first and only approved therapy in the United States is intravitreal ranibizumab-injections. Ranibizumab belongs to a therapeutic class inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor, or anti-VEGF. It is important to note, there is significant competition from off-label anti-VEGF treatment of DME from bevacizumab. Iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide micro-insert intravitreous implant) is available in six European countries, and is pending approval in the United States while its sponsor reportedly resolves manufacturing issues. Dexamethasone intravitreal implant is available in the United States for macular edema following retinal vein occlusion and noninfectious uveitis and the product’s sponsor has submitted applications for U.S. and European approval in the treatment of DME. Aflibercept, another anti-VEGF antibody treatment, is also awaiting U.S. and European approval in the treatment of DME.
Phase II Trial
 
In 2012, we concluded our Phase II randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study of Optina in subjects with diabetic macular edema in Canada. The trial established that the dose of Optina should take BMI into account. When stratified for BMI the study demonstrated that 47% of patients who received Optina improved at least one best corrected visual acuity category and achieved a reduction in central retinal thickness at 12 weeks. The study was stopped early in order to pursue a redesigned trial that would evaluate the safety and efficacy of Optina with drug dosing refined by BMI.
 
OptimEyes Trial
 
In 2014 and 2015, we conducted the OptimEyes multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized, dose ranging trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of oral Optina, which included 355 patients. The trial showed Optina was safe and well tolerated with no drug related adverse events and no differences in side effect rates between the placebo and Optina groups. The trial did not meet its primary endpoint for all patients. However, we believe we have successfully identified an optimal dose for a BMI subgroup of patients who are refractory to currently available therapies and also utilize renin-angiotensin system, or RAS, inhibitors as a medication. As more than 70% of all DME patients are utilizing RAS inhibitors to control their blood pressure, we believe this combination of drugs shows promise as a painless, safe and efficacious oral treatment for DME, and a rescue medication following anti-vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF therapy failure. These patients showed a +6.2 letter improvement in visual acuity. We presented these results at the World Ophthalmology Congress in February 2016 and The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology Conference in May 2016. We also presented at the 49th Annual RETINA Society Meeting in September 2016.
 
Clinical Development Pathway
 
We met with the Division of the Transplant and Ophthalmology Products of the FDA in late 2015 to discuss the results of the OptimEyes clinical trial of Optina and to seek guidance on the next steps for approval. The guidance from the FDA was that we perform a confirmatory study on patients with DME who are refractory to the currently available drugs, which if successful, would qualify Optina as a rescue medication for patients who have no treatment options (failed available therapies). The study could have significantly fewer patients than in our previous OptimEyes study, based on power calculations and guidance received from the FDA, and could include approximately 80 patients randomized 1:1 between placebo and Optina. Optina would be compared to placebo, not to other anti-VEGF drugs, since we are addressing a population that failed these alternative treatments. The FDA will consider improved vision as measured by best corrected visual acuity, which is statistically and clinically meaningful, as determined by experts in the field. The duration of the study is expected to be a maximum of 12 months. We have also considered conducting a trial in combination with other anti-VEGF drugs as we believe the effect of Optina with the anti-VEGF drugs could be cumulative.
 
The FDA has indicated that, for §505(b)(2) NDAs, complete studies of the safety and effectiveness of a product candidate may not be necessary if appropriate bridging studies provide an adequate basis for reliance upon the FDA’s findings of safety and effectiveness for a previously approved product.
 
While Optina shows promise, we are currently focusing our resources and clinical development efforts on Ampion to treat osteoarthritis of the knee, our highest priority. We plan to explore partnerships and/or development agreements related to Optina, pending further progress on Ampion related to osteoarthritis of the knee.
 
NCE 001
 
Para-phenoxy-methylphenidate is a novel, small molecule methylphenidate derivative. Its basic mechanism of action is believed to be to increase methylation of the catalytic sub-unit of Protein Phosphatase 2A, or PP2A, with activation of this phosphatase achieving an effect similar to kinase inhibitors. PP2A is known to be largely involved in inflammation, angiogenesis, and cell proliferation, and by decreasing phosphorylation, the intracellular phosphatase inhibits pro-carcinogenic cytokines and chemokines and cell signaling factors. Our pre-clinical research is focused on neuroblastoma, glioblastoma multiforme, renal cell carcinoma, and inflammatory breast cancer.

8
-

Ampion Manufacturing Facility
 
In December 2013, we entered into a ten-year lease of a multi-purpose facility containing approximately 19,000 square feet. This facility includes an FDA compliant clean room to manufacture Ampion, research laboratories and our corporate offices.
 
We moved into this manufacturing facility in the summer of 2014. Since that time, we have implemented a quality system, validated the facility for human-use products and produced Ampion. We presented on single use technology in manufacturing at the 24th Annual Aseptic Processing Technology Conference for the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineers in February of 2015. We are now in the process of producing the FDA required registration batches of Ampion. The facility was placed in service during the first quarter of 2016. In our facility, we manufactured Ampion and the placebo (saline) for the PIVOT and AP-003-C trials.
 
Government Regulation
 
FDA Approval Process
 
In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, record keeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending New Drug Applications, or NDAs, untitled or warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution.
 
Pharmaceutical and biologic product development in the United States typically involves the performance of satisfactory preclinical laboratory and animal studies under the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practices, or GLPs, regulation, the development and demonstration of manufacturing processes which conform to FDA mandated current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, a quality system regulating manufacturing, the submission and acceptance of an IND application which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin in the United States, obtaining the approval of Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, at each site where we plan to conduct a clinical trial to protect the welfare and rights of human subjects in clinical trials, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug or biologic for each indication for which FDA approval is sought, and the submission to the FDA for review and approval of an NDA or BLA. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, and novelty of the product or disease. Preclinical tests generally include laboratory evaluation of a product candidate, its chemistry, formulation, stability and toxicity, as well as certain animal studies to assess its potential safety and efficacy. Results of these preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information (in compliance with GLP and cGMP), analytical data and the clinical trial protocol (detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated), must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials can begin.
 
An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the intended conduct of the trials and imposes what is referred to as a clinical hold. Preclinical studies generally take several years to complete, and there is no guarantee that an IND based on those studies will become effective, allowing clinical testing to begin. In addition to FDA review of an IND, each medical site that desires to participate in a proposed clinical trial must have the protocol reviewed and approved by an independent IRB or Ethics Committee, or EC, for sites located outside of the United States. The IRB considers, among other things, ethical factors, and the selection and safety of human subjects. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, requirements. The FDA and/or IRB/EC may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial or a specific clinical trial site to be halted at any time, or impose other sanctions for failure to comply with requirements under the appropriate entity jurisdiction.
 
Clinical trials to support NDAs and BLAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1 clinical trials, a product candidate is typically introduced either into healthy human subjects or patients with the medical condition for which the new drug is intended to be used. The main purpose of the trial is to assess a product candidate’s safety and the ability of the human body to tolerate the product candidate. Phase 1 clinical trials generally include less than 50 subjects or patients. During Phase II trials, a product candidate is studied in an exploratory trial or trials in a limited number of patients with the disease or medical condition for which it is intended to be used in order to: (i) further identify any possible adverse side effects and safety risks, (ii) assess the preliminary or potential efficacy of the product candidate for specific target diseases or medical conditions, and (iii) assess dosage tolerance and determine the optimal dose for Phase III trial. Phase III trials are generally undertaken to demonstrate clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population with the goal of evaluating the overall risk-benefit relationship of the product candidate. Phase III trials will generally be designed to reach a specific goal or endpoint, the achievement of which is intended to demonstrate the candidate product’s clinical efficacy and provide adequate information for labeling of the drug or biologic.
 

9
-

 

A drug being studied in clinical trials may be made available to individual patients in certain circumstances. Pursuant to the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, which was signed into law in December 2016, the manufacturer of an investigational drug for a serious disease or condition is required to make available, such as by posting on its website, its policy on evaluating and responding to requests for individual patient access to such investigational drug. This requirement applies on the later of 60 calendar days after the date of enactment of the Cures Act or the first initiation of a Phase 2 or Phase 3 trial of the investigational drug.
 
After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA or BLA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA or BLA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA or BLA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical, and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product’s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA or BLA is substantial. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs or BLAs is subject to an application user fee, currently $2.4 million. However, the FDA will waive the application user fee for the first human drug application that a small business or its affiliate submits for review. Small businesses are defined as businesses with less than 500 employees, therefore Ampio is considered a small business. The manufacturer and/or sponsor under an approved NDA or BLA are also subject to an annual program fee, currently $300,000. The annual program fee replaced the product and establishment user fees that the FDA charged in prior years. These fees are typically increased annually.
 
The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA or BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the FDA’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDA’s and BLA’s. Most such applications for standard drug products are reviewed within ten months; most applications for priority drugs are reviewed in six months. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products, or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an advisory committee—typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts—for review, evaluation, and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMP is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied.
 
After the FDA evaluates the NDA or BLA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA or BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA or BLA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug’s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing.
 
Fast Track Designation
 
The FDA has developed a “Fast Track” program, which provides the potential for expedited review of NDAs and BLAs. Fast Track status is potentially provided only for those new and novel therapies that are intended to treat persons with a serious condition and there is nonclinical or clinical data that demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need. During the development of the product candidates that qualify for this status, the FDA may expedite consultations and reviews of these experimental therapies. Fast track designation allows for portions of the NDA or BLA to be submitted to the FDA for review prior to the completion of the entire application, which could result in a reduction in the length of time it would otherwise take the FDA to complete its review of the NDA or BLA. Fast Track status may be revoked by the FDA at any time if the clinical results of a trial fail to continue to support the assertion that the respective product candidate has the potential to address an unmet medical need. Fast Track status also provides the potential for a product candidate to have a “Priority Review” which results in a shorter review period for the NDA or BLA, specifically 6 months versus 10 months for a standard review.

10
--

Orphan Drug Designation
 
The FDA may grant Orphan Drug status to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. If and when the FDA grants Orphan Drug status, the generic name and trade name of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan Drug status does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The FDA may grant Orphan Drug status to multiple competing product candidates targeting the same indications. A product that has been designated as an Orphan Drug that subsequently receives the first FDA approval is entitled to Orphan Drug exclusivity. This exclusivity means the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years from the date of the initial FDA approval. Orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages, and user-fee waivers.
Breakthrough Designation
 
Breakthrough therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions. The criteria for breakthrough therapy designation require preliminary clinical evidence that demonstrates the drug may have substantial improvement for at least one clinically significant endpoint compared to available therapy. A breakthrough therapy designation conveys all of the fast track program features, as well as more intensive FDA guidance on an efficient drug development program. The FDA also has an organizational commitment to involve senior management in such guidance.
Accelerated Approval
 
Under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients compared to existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory tests or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions, or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A drug candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase IV or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the predictability of surrogate endpoints for clinical outcomes. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, will allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA.
Foreign Regulatory Approval
 
Outside of the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will be contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities, whether or not FDA approval has been obtained. The foreign regulatory approval process in most industrialized countries generally encompasses risks similar to those we will encounter in the FDA approval process. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorizations, and the time required to obtain requisite approvals, may vary widely from country to country and differ from that required for FDA approval.
 
Under European Union regulatory systems, marketing authorizations may be submitted either under a centralized or decentralized procedure.
 
The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The centralized procedure is compulsory for human medicines that are: derived from biotechnology processes, such as genetic engineering, that contain a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative disorders or autoimmune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, and officially designated orphan medicines. For medicines that do not fall within these categories, an applicant has the option of submitting an application for a centralized marketing authorization to the European Commission following a favorable opinion by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, as long as the medicine concerned is a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation, or if its authorization would be in the interest of public health.
 
The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessment report, each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. The mutual recognition process results in separate national marketing authorizations in the reference member state and each concerned member state. We will seek to choose the appropriate route of European regulatory filing in an attempt to accomplish the most rapid regulatory approvals for our product candidates when ready for review. However, the chosen regulatory strategy may not secure regulatory approval of the chosen product indications. In addition, these approvals, if obtained, may take longer than anticipated. We can provide no assurance that any of our product candidates will prove to be safe or effective, will receive required regulatory approvals, or will be successfully commercialized.
 

11
--

The Hatch-Waxman Amendments
 
In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent whose claims cover the applicant’s product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through bioequivalence testing to be therapeutically equivalent to the listed drug. Other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing, ANDA applicants are not required to conduct, or submit results of, preclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as “generic equivalents” to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug.
 
The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA’s Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: 1) the required patent information has not been filed; 2) the listed patent has expired; 3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or 4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product’s listed patents, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired.
 
If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant.
 
The ANDA application also will not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. Federal law provides a period of five years of exclusivity following approval of a drug containing no previously approved active ingredients during which ANDAs for generic versions of those drugs cannot be submitted, unless the submission contains a Paragraph IV challenge to a listed patent in which case the submission may be made four years following the original product approval. Federal law provides for a period of three years of exclusivity during which FDA cannot grant effective approval of an ANDA based on the approval of a listed drug that contains previously approved active ingredients but is approved in a new dosage form, route of administration or combination, or for a new use; the approval of which was required to be supported by new clinical trials conducted by, or for, the applicant.
 
Biosimilars and Exclusivity
 
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, includes a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCI Act, which created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, an FDA-licensed reference biological product. This amendment to the Public Health Services Act attempts to minimize duplicative testing. Biosimilarity, requires that there can be no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency, and can be shown through analytical studies, animal studies, and a clinical trial or trials. Interchangeability requires that a product is biosimilar to the reference product and the product must demonstrate that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times. The biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic.
 
A reference biologic is granted twelve years of exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the reference product. The first biologic product submitted under the abbreviated approval pathway that is determined to be interchangeable with the reference product has exclusivity against other biologics submitting under the abbreviated approval pathway for the lesser of (i) one year after the first commercial marketing, (ii) eighteen months after approval if there is no legal challenge, (iii) eighteen months after the resolution in the applicant’s favor of a lawsuit challenging the biologics’ patents if an application has been submitted, or (iv) 42 months after the application has been approved if a lawsuit is ongoing within the 42-month period.
 

12
--

 

Post-Approval Regulation
 
Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval is typically limited to specific clinical indications. Further, after regulatory approval is obtained, subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on its use or complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Any FDA-approved products manufactured or distributed by us are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse events or experiences. Further, drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and state agencies for compliance with cGMP, which impose rigorous procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our contract manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future contract manufacturers or suppliers will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, total or partial suspension of production activities, failure of the FDA to grant approval for marketing, and withdrawal, suspension, or revocation of marketing approvals.
 
If the FDA approves one or more of our product candidates, we and the contract manufacturers of clinical supplies and commercial supplies must provide certain updated safety and efficacy information. Product changes, as well as certain changes in the manufacturing process or facilities where the manufacturing occurs or other post-approval changes may necessitate additional FDA review and approval. The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product must also be in compliance with FDA and Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requirements which include, among others, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. In addition, we are prohibited from promoting our products off-label. The FDA and FTC have very broad enforcement authority, and failure to abide by these regulations can result in penalties, including the issuance of a warning letter or untitled letter directing us to correct deviations from regulatory requirements and enforcement actions that can include seizures, fines, injunctions and criminal prosecution.
 
Other Regulatory Requirements
 
We are also subject to regulation by other regional, national, state and local agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies. Our current and future partners are subject to many of the same requirements.
 
In addition, we are subject to other regulations, including regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the Toxic Substance Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and regulations under other federal, state and local laws.
 
Violations of any of the foregoing requirements could result in penalties being assessed against us.
 
Privacy
 
Most health care providers, including research institutions from whom we or our partners obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the amendments to HIPAA under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH. Additionally, strict personal privacy laws in other countries affect pharmaceutical companies’ activities in those countries. Such laws include the European Union, or EU, Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, as well as individual EU Member States, implementing laws and additional laws. Although our clinical development efforts are not barred by these privacy regulations, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider that has not satisfied HIPAA’s or the EU’s disclosure standards. Failure by EU clinical trial partners to obey requirements of national laws on private personal data, including laws implementing the EU Data Protection Directive, might result in liability and/or adverse publicity.
Information Systems
 
We believe that our Information Systems, or IS, capabilities are adequate to manage our core business and our internal controls related to IS are operating effectively.
Intellectual Property Summary
 
Ampion
 
As of December 31, 2017, the current Ampion patent portfolio consists of 134 issued patents (including patents that have been issued in European validated countries) and 77 pending applications worldwide. The portfolio primarily consists of eight families filed in the United States and throughout the world. The first family includes seven issued U.S. patents and one issued European Patent Office, or EPO, patent validated in 19 countries with claims relating to methods of treating inflammatory disease and compositions of matter comprising diketopiperazine derivatives, including DA-DKP. This family also includes issued patents in Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan and South Africa and one pending application in the United States. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2021.

13
--

 

The second family includes nine issued U.S. patents with claims directed to methods of treating inflammation and T-cell mediated or inflammatory diseases with compositions of matter comprising DA-DKP. This family also includes issued patents in Australia, China, India, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, South Africa and five issued patents in EPO (each validated in numerous countries) and pending applications in the United States, Canada, China, EPO, Israel, Korea and Hong Kong. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2024.
 
The third family includes three issued U.S. patents, a pending U.S. application, and issued patents in Australia, China, Eurasia (Russia), Japan and New Zealand and pending applications in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, EPO, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Israel, Korea, Mexico, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, United States, and South Africa. The claims in this family are directed to the use of DA-DKP for the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2032.
 
The fourth family includes one issued U.S. patent, a pending U.S. application and pending applications in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Eurasia, EPO, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Israel, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, and South Africa with claims directed to the use of DA-DKP to mobilize, home, expand and differentiate stem cells in the treatment of subjects. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2034.
 
The fifth family includes pending applications in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Eurasia, EPO, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Israel, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore and South Africa with claims directed to manufacturing methods with DA-DKP compositions. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2034.
 
The sixth family includes one pending U.S. application and pending applications in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, Japan, Korea and Russia with claims directed to the use of DA-DKP for the treatment of degenerative joint diseases in a multi-dose treatment regimen. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2035.
 
The seventh family includes one pending U.S. application and a Patent Cooperation Treaty international application with claims directed to the use of DA-DKP in the absence of COX-2 antagonist treatment. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family will be in 2036.
 
The eighth family includes a Patent Cooperation Treaty international application with claims directed to the use of N-acetyl-kynurenine for treatment of T-cell mediated diseases, degenerative joint disease and diseases mediated by platelet activating factor and composition of matter. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family will be 2037.
 
Optina
 
As of December 31, 2017, the Optina patent portfolio currently consists of 29 issued patents (including patents that have been issued in European validated countries) and 33 pending applications worldwide. The portfolio consists primarily of three patent families, the first and second of which include claims for the use of low doses of danazol to treat conditions associated with vascular hyperpermeability. These two families include issued patents in the United States, Australia, EPO (validated in Hong Kong), Germany, Japan, Mexico, Israel, Philippines, and Canada with claims relating to methods of treating macular edema or diabetic nephropathywith danazol. These families also include pending applications in Australia, China, Canada, Eurasian Patent Organization (allowed), EPO, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Hong Kong and the United States. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in these families is in 2030. The third family is for the treatment of conditions associated with vascular hyperpermeability with low doses of danazol that correspond to the body fat content of the patient. The standard 20-year expiration for patents in this family is in 2033.
Barriers to Entry – General
 
We also maintain trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect through confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements. We expect to seek U.S. and foreign patent protection for drug and diagnostic products we discover, as well as therapeutic and diagnostic products and processes. We expect to also seek patent protection or rely upon trade secret rights to protect certain other technologies which may be used to discover and characterize drugs and diagnostic products and processes, and which may be used to develop novel therapeutic and diagnostic products and processes. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. If we do not adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, our competitive position and business prospects could be materially harmed.

14
--

 

The patent positions of companies such as ours involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, their enforceability cannot be predicted with any certainty. Our issued and licensed patents, and those that may be issued to us in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under the patents or licenses may not provide us with meaningful protection or competitive advantages. Our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us, which could offset any advantages we might otherwise realize from our intellectual property. Furthermore, even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, the time required for development, testing, and regulatory review could mean that protection afforded to us by our patents may only remain in effect for a short period after commercialization. The expiration of patents or license rights we hold could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our pharmaceutical drugs or diagnostics, thus harming our operating results and financial position.
 
We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that such rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. If we must litigate to protect our intellectual property from infringement, we may incur substantial costs and our officers may be forced to devote significant time to litigation-related matters. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
 
Our pending patent applications, or those we may file or license from third parties in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by an application for patent may be narrowed or removed entirely, thus depriving us of adequate protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing product candidates to market exceeds the returns we are likely to obtain. We are generally aware of the scientific research being conducted in the areas in which we focus our research and development efforts, but patent applications filed by others are maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months and, in some cases in the United States, until the patent is issued. The publication of discoveries in scientific literature often occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. As a result, it is possible that patent applications for products similar to our drug or diagnostic candidates may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and it is possible that our development of product candidates could be challenged by other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. If we become involved in litigation concerning the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, we may incur significant litigation or licensing expenses, be prevented from further developing or commercializing a product candidate, be required to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or subject us to compensatory or punitive damage awards. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business.
 
Competition
 
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about diseases and develop new technologies and treatments. Significant competitive factors in our industry include product efficacy and safety; quality and breadth of an organization’s technology; skill of an organization’s employees and its ability to recruit and retain key employees; timing and scope of regulatory approvals; government reimbursement rates for, and the average selling price of, products; the availability of raw materials and qualified manufacturing capacity; manufacturing costs; intellectual property and patent rights and their protection; and sales and marketing capabilities.
 
We cannot assure you that any of the successful products we develop will be clinically superior or scientifically preferable to products developed or introduced by our competitors.
 
Many of our actual and potential competitors have substantially longer operating histories and possess greater name recognition, product portfolios, and significantly greater experience in discovering, developing, manufacturing, and marketing products as well as financial, research, and marketing resources than we do. Among our smaller competitors, many of these companies have established co-development and collaboration relationships with larger pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, which may make it more difficult for us to attract strategic partners. Our current and potential competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and research institutions. Some of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than do we. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than us in discovering, developing, manufacturing, and marketing pharmaceutical products. If one of our competitors realizes a significant advance in pharmaceutical drugs that address one or more of the diseases targeted by our product candidates it could be rendered uncompetitive or obsolete.
 
Our competitors may also succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we are able to do, which could place us at a significant competitive disadvantage or deny us marketing exclusivity rights. Market acceptance of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: (i) potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies, (ii) the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products, (iii) the effectiveness of sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities and (iv) the scope of any approval provided by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities.
 

15
--

 

Although we believe our product candidates possess attractive attributes, we cannot assure you that our product candidates will achieve regulatory or market acceptance, or that we will be able to compete effectively in the pharmaceutical drug markets. If our product candidates fail to gain regulatory approvals and acceptance in their intended markets, we may not generate meaningful revenues or achieve profitability.
 
Research and Development
 
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded $10.4 million, $10.5 million and $15.1 million, respectively, of research and development expenses. Research and development expenses represented 67.0%, 61.7% and 62.5% of total operating expenses in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. More information regarding our research and development activities can be found in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of this Annual Report.
Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
We believe we are in compliance with current environmental protection requirements that apply to us or our business. Costs attributable to environmental compliance are not currently material.
Product Liability and Insurance
 
The development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products involve inherent risks of adverse side effects or reactions that can cause bodily injury or even death. Product candidates we succeed in commercializing could adversely affect consumers even after obtaining regulatory approval and, if so, we could be required to withdraw a product from the market or be subject to administrative or other proceedings. We obtain clinical trial liability coverage for human clinical trials, and will obtain appropriate product liability insurance coverage for products we manufacture and sell for human consumption. The amount, nature and pricing of such insurance coverage will likely vary due to a number of factors such as the product candidate’s clinical profile, efficacy and safety record, and other characteristics. We may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to address our exposure to product recall or liability actions, or the cost of that coverage may be such that we will be limited in the types or amount of coverage we can obtain. Any uninsured loss we suffer could materially and adversely affect our business and financial position.
Employees
 
As of March 5, 2018, we had 17 full-time employees and utilized the services of a number of consultants on a temporary basis. Overall, we have not experienced any work stoppage and do not anticipate any work stoppage in the foreseeable future. Management believes that relations with our employees are good.
Available Information
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 373 Inverness Parkway, Suite 200, Englewood, Colorado 80112 USA, and our phone number is (720) 437-6500.
 
We maintain a website on the internet at www.ampiopharma.com. We make available free of charge through our website, by way of a hyperlink to a third-party site that includes filings we make with the SEC website (www.sec.gov), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics and the charters of our Nominating and Governance Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors may be accessed within the Investor Relations section of our website. Amendments and waivers of the Code of Conduct and Ethics will also be disclosed within four business days of issuance on the website. Information found on our website is neither part of this annual report on Form 10-K nor any other report filed with the SEC.

16
--

