Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | BUSINESS
--------+---------

 
(a) General Development of the Business
 
Recent Reorganization - Canterbury Park Holding Corporation (the “Company”) was incorporated as a Minnesota corporation in October 2015. The Company is a successor corporation to another corporation, also named Canterbury Park Holding Corporation, that was incorporated in 1994 (“CPHC”). Effective as of the close of business on June 30, 2016 CPHC’s business and operations were reorganized into a holding company structure (the “Reorganization”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 1, 2016 that was approved by CPHC’s shareholders on June 28, 2016. Pursuant to the Reorganization:

· | The Company replaced CPHC as the public company owned by CPHC’s shareholders, with each shareholder at June 30, 2016 owning the same number of shares and having the same percentage ownership in the Company (and, indirectly, in all property and other assets then owned by CPHC) immediately after the Reorganization as that shareholder had in CPHC immediately before the Reorganization.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | The Company became the holding company for and parent company of two subsidiaries, Canterbury Park Entertainment LLC (“EntertainmentCo”) and Canterbury Development LLC (“DevelopmentCo”).
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | EntertainmentCo was the surviving business entity in a merger with CPHC pursuant to the Reorganization and it became the direct owner of all land, facilities, and substantially all other assets related to the CPHC’s pari-mutuel wagering, Card Casino, concessions and other related businesses (“Racetrack Operations”), and EntertainmentCo continues to conduct these businesses consistent with CPHC’s past practices and the Racetrack operations continue to be subject to direct regulation by the Minnesota Racing Commission (“MRC”).
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | DevelopmentCo continues CPHC’s efforts prior to June 30, 2016 to commercially develop approximately 140 acres of Company land that is not needed for Racetrack Operations. DevelopmentCo is not subject to direct regulation by the MRC.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | On July 1, 2016, the shares of the Company’s common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “CPHC.”
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Further information regarding the Reorganization is set forth in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form
 S-4 (File No. 333-210877) filed with the SEC on April 22, 2016.
 
For purposes of this Report on Form 10-K, when the term “Company” is used with reference to information covering or related to periods up to and including June 30, 2016, the term refers to the operations of CPHC prior to the Reorganization.
 
Business Overview - Canterbury Park Holding Corporation (the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) hosts pari-mutuel wagering on horse races and “unbanked” card games at its Canterbury Park Racetrack and Card Casino facility (the “Racetrack”) in Shakopee, Minnesota. The Company’s pari-mutuel wagering operations include both wagering on thoroughbred and quarter horse races during live meets at the Racetrack and year-round wagering on races held at out-of-state racetracks that are televised simultaneously at the Racetrack (“simulcasting”). Unbanked card games, in which patrons compete against each other, are hosted in the Card Casino at the Racetrack. The Company also derives revenues from related services and activities, such as food and beverage, parking, advertising signage, publication sales, and catering and events held at the Racetrack. The ownership and operation of the Racetrack and the Card Casino are significantly regulated by the MRC.
 
The Company acquired the Racetrack on March 29, 1994, commenced seven day a week simulcast operations on May 6, 1994, and, beginning in May 1995, launched live horse racing and related pari-mutuel wagering on a seasonal basis, generally from early May to early September. The Card Casino opened on April 19, 2000 and, with authority to host card games at up to 80 tables, the Company currently hosts live play on approximately 65 tables on a daily basis.
 
In June 2012, the Company entered into a Cooperative Marketing Agreement (the “CMA”) with the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community (“SMSC”) pursuant to which SMSC agreed, through 2022, to supplement purses for live races at the Racetrack, as well as provide funds to the Company for joint marketing efforts with SMSC. See “Cooperative Marketing Agreement” at (c)(ix) below for additional information.
 

3
-

 


The Company’s website is www.canterburypark.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our periodic reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge on our website.
 
(b) Financial Information About Segments
 
The Company divides its business into four segments: horse racing, Card Casino, food and beverage, and development. The horse racing segment represents our pari-mutuel wagering operations on simulcast and live horse races; the Card Casino segment represents our unbanked card operations; the food and beverage segment includes concessions, catering and events services provided at the Racetrack; and the development segment represents our real estate development operations.
 
(c) Narrative Description of Business
 

(i) | Horse Racing Operations
----+------------------------

 
The Company’s horse racing operations consist of year-round simulcasting of horse races from around the U.S. and internationally, and wagering on live thoroughbred and quarter horse races (“live meets”) held on a seasonal basis beginning in May and generally concluding in September each year.
 
Live Racing
 
For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Racetrack hosted 67 days and 69 days, respectively, of live racing beginning in early May and concluding in September. Currently, Minnesota law requires the Company to schedule a minimum of 125 days of live racing annually, unless the Minnesota Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association (the “MHBPA”) agrees to a lesser number of live racing days. Since 1995, the MHBPA has agreed to waive the 125-day requirement and has allowed the Company to run a live meet of at least 50 days each year. Pursuant to the CMA, the MHBPA entered into a Horse Association Agreement with the Company in which it agreed to waive the 125-day requirement if at least 65 days of live racing are scheduled each year during the term of the agreement. If, for any reason, the MHBPA ceases to be bound by its obligations under the Horse Association Agreement, and the Company and the MHBPA are unable to agree on a live meet shorter than 125 days, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected by a decrease in the daily purses, potential reduction in the quality of horses, lower attendance, lower overall average amount wagered (“handle”), and substantially greater operating expenses.
Simulcasting
 
Simulcasting is the process by which live horse races held at one facility (the “host track”) are transmitted simultaneously to other locations to allow patrons at each receiving location (the “guest track”) to place wagers on races transmitted from the host track. Monies are collected at the guest track and the information with respect to the total amount wagered is electronically transmitted to the host track. All of the amounts wagered at guest tracks are combined into the appropriate pools at the host track with the final odds and payouts based upon all the monies in the respective pools.
 
The Company offers simulcast racing from up to 20 racetracks per day, seven days a week, 364 days per year, including Churchill Downs, Santa Anita, Gulfstream Park, Belmont Park, and Saratoga Racecourse.  In addition, races of national interest, such as the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes, the Belmont Stakes, and the Breeders’ Cup supplement the regular simulcast program.  The Company regularly evaluates its agreements with other racetracks to offer the most popular simulcast signals of live horse racing that are reasonably available.
 
Under federal and state law, in order to conduct simulcast operations either as a host or guest track, the Company must obtain the consent of the state’s regulatory authority and the organization that represents a majority of the owners and trainers of the horses who race at the Racetrack.  In Minnesota, these consents must be obtained from the MRC and the MHBPA, respectively.  As these consents are obtained annually, no assurance can be given that the MRC and the MHBPA will allow the Company to conduct simulcast operations either as a host or guest track after 2017.  If the MRC or the MHBPA does not consent, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected by a decrease in pari-mutuel revenue, potential reduction in the quality of horses, lower attendance, and lower overall handle.
 

4
-


(ii) | Card Casino Operations
-----+-----------------------

 
The Card Casino is open 24 hours per day, seven days per week, and offers two forms of unbanked card games: poker and table games.
 
Poker games, including Texas Hold ‘Em, Stud, and Omaha, with betting limits per hand ranging between $2 and $100, are currently offered in the poker room. A dealer employed by the Company regulates the play of the game at each table and deals the cards but does not participate in play. In poker games, the Company is allowed to deduct a percentage from the accumulated wagers and impose other charges for hosting the activity but does not have an interest in the outcome of a game. The Company may add additional prizes, awards or money to any game for promotional purposes.
 
The Card Casino currently offers the following table games: Blackjack, Mississippi Stud, Fortune Pai Gow, Three Card Poker, Ultimate Texas Hold ‘Em, EZ Baccarat, Criss Cross Poker, and Free Bet Blackjack. The Company has the option to offer banked games under laws governing Card Casino operations but currently only offers “unbanked” games. “Unbanked” refers to a wagering system or game where wagers lost in card games are accumulated into a player pool liability for purposes of enhancing the total amount paid back to winning players. The Company can only serve as custodian of the player pool, may not have an active interest in any card game and does not recognize amounts that dealers “win” or “lose” during the course of play as revenue.
 
Under Minnesota law, the Company is required to pay 10% of the first $6 million of gross Card Casino revenues towards purses for live horse racing at the Racetrack. After meeting the $6 million threshold, the Company must pay 14% of gross Card Casino revenues as purse monies. Of funds allocated for purses, the Company pays 10% of the purse monies to the Minnesota Breeders’ Fund (the “MBF”), which is a fund apportioned by the MRC among various purposes related to Minnesota’s horse breeding and horse racing industries. The remaining 90% of purse monies are divided between thoroughbred (90%) and quarter horse (10%) purse funds.
 

(iii) | Food and Beverage Operations
------+-----------------------------

 
The Company’s food and beverage operations consist of concession stands, restaurant and buffet, bars and other food venues. The Company offers two year-round café style restaurants and full service bars within the Card Casino and simulcast area. The Card Casino offers tableside menu service 24 hours a day. Our Triple Crown Club offers lounge services along with a buffet restaurant. During live racing, a wide variety of concession style food and beverage options are available to our guests.
 
The food and beverage operations also include our catering and events services. The Company is the fourth largest event space in the Twin Cities with more than 100,000 square feet of available space. The Company’s facilities provide a variety of purposes for year-round events and other activities. The Company’s event space has been used for craft shows, trade shows, pool and poker tournaments, automobile and other utility vehicle shows, major art shows, and fundraisers. The Company’s outdoor spaces have been used for concerts, snowmobile races and other competitions. In 2016, the Company completed construction of a redesign of the infield of the Racetrack to utilize the space as a concert and event area. In addition to event space, the Company rents space in its horse stable area for boat storage during the winter months.
 

(iv) | Development Operations
-----+-----------------------

 
The Company owns approximately 383 acres of land in Shakopee, Minnesota where the Racetrack is located. Approximately 273 acres of this land is specifically designated as being subject to MRC regulation as part of the Company’s Class A license. The amount of land currently needed to conduct Racetrack operations (grandstand, racetrack, stable area, parking areas, and land for other facilities including the expo center) is approximately 243 acres. As a result, approximately140 acres are considered underutilized (the “Underutilized Land”). This land is available for real estate development compatible with the Company’s Racetrack Operations.
 
For the past several years, the Company has explored various ways to develop the Underutilized Land. The Company has reported on is plans to develop the Underutilized Land from time to time in reports to Securities and Exchange Commission and in press releases. The Company continues to pursue various mixed use development opportunities, such as office, restaurants, hotel, entertainment and retail operations.
 
On May 13, 2016, the Company sold 23.8 acres of land on the north side of its Racetrack property to United Properties for approximately $4.3 million. The Company believed this parcel was not needed for the planned development and was best suited for industrial development by another party. Approximately $1.1 million of the purchase price was paid in cash, and the remaining approximately $3.2 million will be paid by United Properties to the Company under the terms of two promissory notes. The promissory notes provide for payment over a three-year period at an interest rate of 1.43% and are secured by a mortgage on the property sold. As of December 31, 2017, $3.2 million was remaining on the notes.
 

5
-

 

On May 13, 2016, the Company also purchased approximately 32 acres adjacent to the Racetrack for $4.89 million, completing previously announced arrangements under a December 2015 contract. This property, known as the “Hauer Farm,” is immediately southwest of the Racetrack property and is also the site of the area attraction known as “Sever’s Corn Maze.” The Company believes this parcel is a strategic fit for its future development plans.
 

(v) | Sources of Revenue
----+-------------------

General
 
The Company’s revenues are principally derived from three activities: Card Casino operations, wagering on live and simulcast horse races, and food and beverage sales. For the year ended December 31, 2017, revenues from Card Casino operations represented 56.2% of total revenues, wagering on horse races generated 29.3% of total revenues, and food and beverage revenue represented 14.5% of total revenues. Development operations did not generate any revenue in 2017.
Card Casino Operations
 
The Company currently receives collection revenue from poker and table games wagering in its Card Casino, which operates 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The primary source of Card Casino revenue is a percentage of the wagers received from the players, aggregated up to 18% per day through February 28, 2018, as defined by the Minnesota Racing Commission (“MRC”) regulations, as compensation for providing the Card Casino facility and services, referred to as “collection revenue.” Effective March 1, 2018, this amount was increased to 18.5%. The Company estimates that this increase will generate additional Card Casino revenue between $450,000 and $600,000 in 2018. In addition, several table games offer a progressive jackpot. The player has the option of playing the jackpot with the opportunity to win some or the entire jackpot amount, depending upon the player’s hand. The Company collects a “rake” of 5%-10%, depending on the limit of the game, of each addition to the “pot” up to a maximum of $5 per hand as its collection revenue. In addition, poker games offer progressive jackpots for most games. In order to fund the jackpot pools, the dealer withholds $1 from each final pot in excess of the $15 minimum.
Pari-Mutuel Wagering – General
 
In pari-mutuel wagering, bettors wager against each other in a pool, rather than against the operator of the facility or with preset odds. From the total handle wagered, the Minnesota Pari-Mutuel Horse Racing Act (the “Minnesota Racing Act”) specifies the maximum percentage, referred to as the “takeout,” that may be withheld by the Racetrack, with the balance returned to the winning bettors. From the takeout, funds are set aside for purses and paid to the State of Minnesota for pari-mutuel taxes and to the MBF. The balance of the takeout remaining after these deductions is commonly referred to as the “retainage.”
 
Pari-mutuel wagering can be divided into two categories: straight wagering pools and multiple wagering pools, which are also referred to as “exotic” wagering pools. Examples of straight wagers include: “win,” “place,” and “show.” Examples of exotic wagers include: “daily double,” “exacta,” ”trifecta,” and “pick four.”
 
The amount of takeout earned by the Company depends on where the race is run and the form of wager (straight or exotic). Net revenues from pari-mutuel wagering on live races run at the Racetrack consist of the total amount wagered, less the amounts paid (i) to winning patrons, (ii) for purses, (iii) to the MBF and (iv) for pari-mutuel taxes to the State of Minnesota. Net revenues from pari-mutuel wagering on races being run at out-of-state racetracks and simulcast to the Racetrack have similar expenses but also include a host fee payment to the host track. The host fee, which is calculated as a percentage of monies wagered (generally 3.0% to 10.0%), is negotiated with the host track and must comply with state laws governing the host track. Pari-mutuel revenues also include commission and breakage revenues on live on-track and simulcast racing, fees received from out-of-state racetracks for wagering on our live races and proceeds from unredeemed pari-mutuel tickets.
 
Effective November 1, 2016, Minnesota Advanced Deposit Wagering (“ADW”) legislation allows Minnesota residents to engage in pari-mutuel wagering on out-of-state horse races online with a prefunded account through an ADW provider. The Company collects a percentage of monies wagered (generally 3.25% to 5.0%) by Minnesota residents through the ADW provider as a source market fee. The Company pays 28% of the collected revenues to another Minnesota-based horse track, and records the remaining 72% as revenues and records expenses of at least 50% for purses and breeders’ awards.
 

6
-

Wagering on Live Races
 
The Minnesota Racing Act establishes the maximum takeout that may be deducted from the handle. The takeout percentage on live races depends on the type of wager. The total maximum takeouts are 17% from straight wagering pools and 23% from exotic wagering pools. From this takeout, Minnesota law requires deductions for purses, pari-mutuel taxes, and payments to the MBF. In 2016, the Company implemented reduced takeout rates as a promotion designed to increase handle. Takeout on straight wagering pools was reduced to 15% and takeout on exotic wagering pools was reduced to 18%. This takeout reduction did not meet Company expectations and the promotion was not continued in 2017.
 
While the Minnesota Racing Act regulates that a minimum of 8.4% of the live racing handle be paid as purses to the owners of the horses, purse contributions from other sources are subject to an agreement with the MHBPA and the Minnesota Quarter Horse Association (the “horsepersons’ associations”). In addition, the MBF receives 1% of the handle. The current pari-mutuel tax applicable to wagering on all simulcast and live races is 6% of takeout in excess of $12 million during the twelve-month period beginning July 1 and ending the following June 30.
 
Food and Beverage Revenue
 
The Company earns revenue from sales in its restaurant, catering areas and numerous concession stands located throughout the facility. Food and beverage sales are also offered in the card room during live and simulcast racing and during events.
Other Revenue
 
The Company generates cash revenues from the receipt of reserved seating charges, preferred and valet parking and the sales of various daily pari-mutuel publications. Additional revenues are derived from special events and other space rentals. The Company also generates revenue from providing advertising signage space.

(vi) | Competition
-----+------------

 
The Company faces direct competition from North Metro Harness Initiative, LLC (“NMHI”) that operates the Running Aces Harness Park in Columbus Township, Anoka County, Minnesota, a racetrack and card room that is located approximately 50 miles from Canterbury Park. NHMI offers pari-mutuel wagering on live races of standardbred (“harness”) horses on a seasonal basis and year round wagering on simulcasting of all breeds of horse races.  In addition to pari-mutuel wagering, NHMI operates a card room that directly competes with the Company’s Card Casino. Due to its proximity and similar wagering and gaming offerings, NHMI’s direct and substantial competition could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
The Company operates in a highly competitive wagering and gaming environment with a large number of participants. The Company competes with competitive wagering operations and activities that include tribal casinos, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. The Company competes with a number of tribal casinos in the State of Minnesota that offer video slot machines, table games and unbanked card games, including Minnesota’s largest casino, Mystic Lake, which is located approximately four miles from the Racetrack.
 
Additionally, Internet-based interactive gaming and wagering is growing rapidly and adversely affects all forms of wagering offered by the Company. Legislation became effective November 1, 2016 in Minnesota that allowed the Company to begin collecting source market fees from companies that offer ADW wagering. These companies provide legal simulcast horse wagering over the internet. The legislation now allows the Company to recoup a percentage of all simulcast horse racing wagers made by Minnesota residents over the internet on out-of-state races; however, the legal clarification of this type of wagering will significantly intensify the competition in the marketplace. The Company anticipates competition from other existing and new Internet-based gaming ventures, including Fantasy Sports, will become more intense as state and federal regulation of Internet-based activities is clarified.
 
The Company also faces indirect competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options. In the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area, competition includes a wide range of live and televised professional and collegiate sporting events. In addition, live horse racing competes with a wide variety of summer attractions, including amusement parks, sporting events, and other local activities.
 

7
-

 

Finally, the Company competes with racetracks located throughout the United States in securing horses to run at the Racetrack. Attracting owners and trainers that can bring high quality horses to our Racetrack is largely dependent on the ability to offer competitive purses. The Company experiences significant competition for horses from racetracks located near Des Moines, Iowa and Chicago, Illinois. This competition is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
 

(vii) | Regulation
------+-----------

General
 
The ownership and operation of the Racetrack in Minnesota is subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Minnesota Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The Minnesota Racing Act governs the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses, pari-mutuel taxes, and the MBF, and empowers the MRC to license and regulate substantially all aspects of horse racing in the State. The MRC, among other things, grants operating licenses to racetracks after an application process and public hearings, licenses all racetrack employees, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians, and other participants, regulates the transfer of ownership interests in licenses, allocates live race days and simulcast-only race days, approves race programs, regulates the conduct of races, sets specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters and public areas of racetracks, regulates the types of wagers on horse races, and approves significant contractual arrangements with racetracks, including management agreements, simulcast arrangements, and totalizator contracts.
 
A federal statute, the Interstate Horse Racing Act of 1978, also requires that a racetrack must obtain the consent of the group representing the horsepersons (owners and trainers) racing the breed of horses that race a majority of the time at the racetrack (the MHBPA), and the consent of the state agency regulating the racetrack (in Minnesota, the MRC), in order to transmit simulcast signals of its live races or to receive and use simulcast signals from other racetracks.
 
Issuance of Class A and Class B Licenses to the Company
 
The Company holds a Class A License, issued by the MRC, that allows the Company to own and operate the Racetrack. The Class A License is effective until revoked, suspended by the MRC or relinquished by the licensee. Currently, the fee for a Class A License is $253,000 per fiscal year.
 
The Company also holds a Class B License, issued by the MRC, that allows the Company to sponsor and manage horse racing on which pari-mutuel wagering is conducted at its Class A licensed racetrack and on other horse races run at out-of-state locations as authorized by the MRC. The Class B License is renewable each year by the MRC after a public hearing (if required by the MRC). Currently, the fee for the Class B License is $500 for each assigned race day on which live racing is actually conducted and $100 for each day on which simulcasting is authorized and actually takes place.
 
In addition, the law requires that the Company reimburse the MRC for actual costs, including stewards, state veterinarians and drug testing, related to the regulating of live racing. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company paid $638,000 and $587,000 respectively, to the MRC as reimbursement for costs of regulating live racing operations.
 
Limitation on the Number of Class A and Class B Licenses
 
Pursuant to the Racing Act, so long as the Racetrack maintains its Class A License, no other Class A License may be issued to allow an entity to own and operate a racetrack in the seven county metropolitan area where thoroughbred and quarter horses are raced. However, the Racing Act provides that the MRC may issue an additional Class A License within the seven-county metropolitan area, if the additional license is issued for a facility that, among other conditions, is located more than 20 miles from the Racetrack, contains a track no larger than five-eighths of a mile in circumference, and is used exclusively for harness racing. In January 2005 this additional Class A license was issued to NMHI (see “Competition” above).
 
Limitation on Ownership and Management of an Entity that holds a Class A or Class B License
 
The Racing Act requires prior MRC approval of all officers, directors, 5% shareholders or other persons having a present or future direct or indirect financial or management interest in any person applying for a Class A or Class B license, and if a change of ownership of more than 5% of the licensee’s shares is made after an application is filed or the license issued, the applicant or licensee must notify the MRC of the changes within five days of this occurrence and provide the information required by the Racing Act.
 

8
-

Card Casino Regulation
 
The MRC is also authorized by the Racing Act to regulate Card Casino operations. The law requires that the Company reimburse the MRC for its actual costs, including personnel costs, of regulating the Card Casino. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company paid $195,000 and $180,000, respectively, to the MRC as reimbursement for costs of regulating Card Casino operations.
 
On January 19, 2000, the MRC issued an additional Class B License to the Company that authorized the Company to host unbanked card games. The Class B License is renewable each year by the MRC after a public hearing (if required by the MRC). Currently, the Class B License fee of $10,000 per calendar year is included in the Class A License fee of $253,000 per calendar year.
 
Local Regulation
 
The Company’s operations are subject to state and local laws, regulations, ordinances, and other provisions affecting zoning, public health, and other matters that may have the effect of restricting the uses to which the Company’s land and other assets may be used. Also, any development of the Racetrack site is, among other things, subject to applicable zoning ordinances and requires approval by the City of Shakopee and other authorities. There can be no assurance these approvals would be obtained if any development was undertaken.
Federal Regulation 
 
In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) went into effect. The TCJA contains substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2018, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business.

(viii) | Recent Legislation
-------+-------------------

Minimum Wage Legislation
 
Minnesota legislation enacted into law in 2014 increased the minimum wage that must be paid to most company employees from $7.25 to $8.00 on August 1, 2014, from $8.00 to $9.00 per hour on August 1, 2015, and from $9.00 to $9.50 per hour on August 1, 2016. Starting January 1, 2018, the minimum wage will increase at the beginning of each year by the rate of inflation with a maximum increase of up to 2.5% per year. The minimum wage for 2018 will be $9.65 per hour. Prior to August 1, 2014, the Company employed a large number of individuals who received an hourly wage equal to or slightly above $7.25 per hour. As a result, this legislation had an adverse financial impact in 2014 through 2017, and will continue to have an adverse impact. We have implemented measures to partially mitigate the impact of this increase by raising our prices and reducing our employee count. These measures could themselves have an adverse effect because higher prices and diminished service levels may discourage customers from visiting the Racetrack.
Advanced Deposit Wagering Legislation
 
Minnesota ADW legislation that became effective November 1, 2016, requires ADW providers to be licensed by the MRC and established licensing criteria and regulatory oversight of ADW providers doing business in the State of Minnesota. The law allows licensed racetracks to negotiate separate agreements with the ADW providers to remit source market fees to those racetracks. The ADW source market revenue totaled approximately $881,000 and $144,000 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As part of the agreement, 50% of source market fees is allocated to purse accounts and the MBF.

(ix) | Cooperative Marketing Agreement
-----+--------------------------------

 
On June 4, 2012, the Company entered into the CMA with the SMSC. The primary purpose of the CMA is to increase purses paid during live horse racing at Canterbury Park’s Racetrack in order to strengthen Minnesota’s thoroughbred and quarter horse through horse industry. Under the CMA, as amended, this is achieved through “Purse Enhancement Payments to Horsemen” paid directly to the MHBPA. These payments have no direct impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements or operations.
 

9
-

 

Under the CMA, as amended, the SMSC paid the horsemen $7.2 million and $6.7 million for purse enhancements for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
Under the CMA, SMSC also agreed to make “Marketing Payments” to the Company relating to joint marketing efforts for the mutual benefit of the Company and SMSC, including signage, joint promotions, player benefits and events. Under the CMA, the SMSC paid the Company $1,581,000 and $1,198,000 for marketing purposes for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
In January 2015, 2016 and 2017 the CMA was amended to adjust the payment amounts between the “Purse Enhancement Payments to Horsemen” and “Marketing Payments to Canterbury Park.” As the CMA has most recently been amended, SMSC has agreed to make the following purse enhancement and marketing payments in 2018 through 2022:  
 

Year | Purse Enhancement Payments to Horsemen | 1 | Marketing Payments to Canterbury Park | 
-----+-----------------------------------------+-----------+----------------------------------------+--
2018 | $ | 7,380,000 | | $ | 1,620,000
2019 | | 7,380,000 | | | 1,620,000
2020 | | 7,380,000 | | | 1,620,000
2021 | | 7,380,000 | | | 1,620,000
2022 | | 7,380,000 | | | 1,620,000

 
1 - Includes $100,000 each year payable to various horsemen associations
 
 The amounts received from the marketing payments are recorded as a component of other revenue and the related expenses are recorded as a component of advertising and marketing expense and depreciation in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded $1,399,000 in other revenue and incurred $1,173,000 in advertising and marketing expense and $226,000 in depreciation related to the SMSC marketing payment. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recorded $1,096,000 in other revenue and incurred $870,000 in advertising and marketing expense and $226,000 in depreciation related to the SMSC marketing payment. The excess of amounts received over revenue is reflected as deferred revenue on the company’s consolidated balance sheets.
 
Under the CMA, the Company agreed for the term of the CMA that it would not promote or lobby the Minnesota legislature for expanded gambling authority and will support the SMSC’s lobbying efforts against expanding gambling authority.
 

(x) | Marketing
----+----------

 
The Company’s primary market is the seven-county Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area (Hennepin, Ramsey, Anoka, Washington, Dakota, Scott, and Carver) plus the two counties to the south of the Racetrack and Card Casino (Le Sueur and Rice). The City of Shakopee, located in the southwestern portion of the metropolitan area, is one of the fastest growing communities in the region, and Scott County is one of the fastest growing counties in the country.
 
To support its pari-mutuel horse racing, Card Casino, and catering and events businesses, the Company conducts year-round marketing efforts to maintain the loyalty of existing customers and attract new players to the property. The Company uses radio, television, digital advertising, social media, print advertising and direct marketing to communicate to its audiences. In addition to its regular advertising and communication program, the Company conducts numerous special promotions, handicapping contests and poker tournaments to attract incremental visits. The Company also uses a robust player rewards and database marketing program to enhance the loyalty of its guests.
 
The Company continues to focus on creating a premier guest experience as the core element of its marketing efforts. This includes delivering great customer service, developing new food and beverage offerings, creating fan education programs, and providing entertainment opportunities that go beyond the traditional pari-mutuel wagering and card playing activities.
 

10
--


(xi) | Employees
-----+----------

 
At December 31, 2017, the Company had 267 full-time employees and 596 part-time employees. The Company adds approximately 350 employees on a seasonal basis for live racing operations from early May until early September. The Company’s management believes its employee relations are good.
 

(xii) | Executive Officers
------+-------------------

 
The executive officers of the Company, their ages and their positions with the Company at March 15, 2018 are as follows:
 

Name | Age | Position with Company 
-------------------+-----+-----------------------------------------
Randall D. Sampson | 59 | President and CEO 
Daniel J. Kennedy | 60 | Senior Vice President of Operations 
Robert M. Wolf | 49 | Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO

 
Randall D. Sampson has been President and Chief Executive Officer since the formation of the Company in March 1994. He has been active in horse industry associations, currently serving as Director of the Thoroughbred Racetracks of America and is a past Vice President of the Thoroughbred Racetracks of America and past President of the Minnesota Thoroughbred Association. Mr. Sampson also currently serves as a director of Communications Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:JCS), a manufacturer of telecommunications and data communications products based in Minnetonka, Minnesota. Mr. Sampson is the son of Curtis A. Sampson, who is the Company’s non-executive Chairman of the Board and the beneficial owner of approximately 20% of the Company’s common stock.
 
Daniel J. Kennedy has been Senior Vice President of Operations at Canterbury since June 2017. Mr. Kennedy’s gaming experience began in 1993 in the finance department at Mystic Lake Casino. He has also been employed by Grand Casino Hinckley, Prairie Band Casino and Resort, and Penn National – Hollywood Casinos in Baton Rouge, La. and Charles Town, W.Va. Most recently, Mr. Kennedy served as assistant general manager at Penn National – Hollywood Casino Jamul in San Diego.
 
Robert M. Wolf was hired as Vice President of Finance in March 2017 and was named Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer in September 2017. Prior to joining Canterbury, he served as CFO for two public companies in the Twin Cities, Rimage Corporation and MGC Diagnostics Corporation. 
 
