Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
--------+----------

Overview
 We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company committed to realizing the promise of precision medicines for the treatment of cancer. Our pipeline consists of small molecule product candidates that target cancer signaling pathways, and we intend to pair them with molecular or cellular diagnostics to identify those patients most likely to respond to treatment. We intend to advance our product candidates through a combination of internal development and strategic partnerships and maintain significant development and commercial rights.
 Our lead product candidate, tipifarnib, is a potent, selective and orally bioavailable inhibitor of farnesyl transferase. Tipifarnib was previously studied in more than 5,000 cancer patients and demonstrated compelling and durable anti-cancer activity in certain patients with a manageable side effect profile. We are currently evaluating tipifarnib in multiple solid tumor and hematologic indications. 
 Our most advanced solid tumor indication is in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, or HNSCC, that carry mutations in the HRAS gene. In September 2017, we announced that our Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC achieved its primary efficacy endpoint prior to the completion of enrollment. The clinical trial protocol required four confirmed, partial responses, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, or RECIST 1.1, criteria, out of 18 patients to meet its primary endpoint. Four confirmed, partial responses were observed among the first six evaluable HNSCC patients enrolled in the clinical trial. Updated data from the Phase 2 clinical trial were presented at the Multidisciplinary Head and Neck Cancers Symposium in February 2018, showing five confirmed partial responses among the first six evaluable HNSCC patients enrolled in the trial. In addition, objective responses greater than 18 months in duration were observed in two patients. All patients joined the study upon progression on prior therapy, including chemotherapy, cetuximab and immune therapy. 
 We are continuing to enroll HRAS mutant HNSCC patients in the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial and have expanded the trial to include a cohort of patients with other HRAS mutant squamous cell carcinomas, including patients with squamous cutaneous cancers, and squamous non-small cell lung cancer, or Sq-NSCLC. Based on the positive results observed to date in our ongoing Phase 2 study, and following feedback from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and other regulatory authorities, we are preparing to initiate a potentially registration-enabling Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC in the second half of 2018.
 In addition to our tipifarnib development program in solid tumors, we have identified potential biomarkers of activity for tipifarnib in hematologic malignancies, including: peripheral T-cell lymphomas, or PTCL; myelodysplastic syndromes, or MDS; acute myeloid leukemia, or AML; and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or CMML. These potential biomarkers include CXCL12 pathway biomarkers and markers of bone marrow homing. We continue to conduct our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials with the goal of confirming the clinical activity of tipifarnib in these hematologic malignancies, validating our biomarker hypotheses and optimizing dose and schedule for each disease to build a data package supporting advancement to future pivotal studies.
 
2


Our second product candidate is KO-947, a potent and selective small molecule inhibitor of extracellular signal related kinase, or ERK, which we are advancing as a potential treatment for patients with tumors that have mutations in, or other dysregulation of, the mitogen-activated protein kinase, or MAPK, signaling pathway. Our preclinical data suggest that KO-947 has anti-tumor activity in KRAS- or BRAF-mutant adenocarcinomas as well as squamous cell carcinomas. Our Phase 1 clinical trial of KO-947 in patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic, relapsed and/or refractory, non-hematological malignancies is ongoing, with the goal to assess the safety profile of KO-947 and identify a recommended dose and schedule that would permit KO-947 to be evaluated in a Phase 2 study in a patient population selected for potential clinical activity based on potential biomarkers we have identified in our preclinical studies.
 Our third program is focused on KO-539, a potent and selective small molecule inhibitor of the menin-mixed lineage leukemia, or menin-MLL, protein-protein interaction. Although KO-539 was originally designed as a potential therapy for MLL-rearranged leukemias, we have generated preclinical data that support the potential anti-tumor activity of KO-539 in additional, genetically-defined subsets of acute leukemia, including those with oncogenic driver mutations



 in NPM1 and DNMT3A. We estimate that, together with the mixed lineage leukemias, these mutations represent approximately half of diagnosed cases of AML.
 Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Kura Oncology, Inc., a private Delaware corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2014, for the periods prior to our reverse merger transaction which took place on March 6, 2015, or the Merger, and Kura Oncology, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in November 2007 and formerly known as Zeta Acquisition Corp. III, for the periods following the Merger.
 Strategy
 Our strategy is to discover, acquire, develop and commercialize innovative anti-cancer agents in oncology indications with significant unmet medical need and attractive commercial potential. The key components of our strategy include the following:

• | Focus on developing novel, small molecule product candidates for the treatment for cancer;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Identify molecular or genetic characteristics of patient tumors to identify patients more likely to benefit from our product candidates;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Leverage clinical and pathology trends towards comprehensive tumor profiling and the use of companion diagnostics;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Prioritize development of tipifarnib in clinical indications of high unmet need where improved outcomes are associated with specific biomarkers;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Advance our programs through a combination of internal development and strategic partnerships;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Maintain significant development and commercial rights to our product candidates; and
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Build a sustainable product pipeline.
--+--------------------------------------

Precision Medicines in Cancer Treatment
 Advancements in cancer genetics and new molecular diagnostic tools are helping define why some patients respond to a specific therapy while other patients receive little to no clinical benefit. This new era in cancer drug discovery and development offers the potential for innovative treatments that are safer and more effective for patients with specific cancers. We aim to improve patient outcomes and contribute to the reduction in healthcare costs by matching targeted therapeutics to the patients who will derive the most benefit. We are developing a pipeline of small molecule product candidates designed to inhibit the mutated or abnormally functioning cellular pathways that drive cancer growth and intend to pair them with molecular diagnostics to identify those patients with tumors most likely to respond to treatment. This approach to treatment is known as precision medicine.
 A pioneering example of a precision medicine in cancer was the development of small molecule inhibitors against epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, in patients with advanced lung cancer. Patients with EGFR mutations treated with EGFR inhibitors have a response rate in the 65% range, as opposed to a response rate of approximately 10% in unselected lung patients. Erlotinib (Tarceva®) was approved in the United States as a first-line treatment for patients with NSCLC characterized by EGFR mutations. Other examples of approved agents developed using precision medicine approaches include ALK inhibitors, BCR-ABL inhibitors and BRAF inhibitors.
 
3


Precision medicine has a several advantages over traditional drug development. We believe evidence-based selection of patients who are more likely to respond to a targeted therapy based on tumor biology provides the potential for: higher translatability from preclinical to clinical studies; increased overall response rates, requiring fewer patients for clinical development; and expedited clinical development in areas of high unmet need. We believe the precision medicine approach has the potential for more efficient drug development with reduced risks, costs and timelines. However, achieving success through a precision medicine approach is predicated on a thorough understanding of tumor biology and the mechanism of action of the product candidate. To develop this understanding, we have conducted extensive translational research on each of our programs.
 Our Approach to Development of Precision Medicines in Oncology
 Translational research is the practice of synthesizing our knowledge of basic research, preclinical and clinical data to develop a “bench-to-bedside” understanding of the potential of our product candidates, and it is the principal methodology we utilize to guide our precision medicine approach. We evaluate our product candidates through both in vitro and in vivo experiments to evaluate their potential as therapeutics. One of the tools we employ are patient-derived xenograft, or PDX, models. PDX models mostly retain the principal histologic and genetic characteristics of their donor tumor and have been shown in many instances to be predictive of clinical outcomes and are increasingly being used for preclinical drug evaluation, biomarker identification, biologic studies and personalized medicine strategies. We evaluate our product candidates in preclinical PDX studies seeking to corroborate clinical data and in our preclinical programs to identify and prioritize potential clinical indications.
 Because we often target molecular and/or genetic alterations that are detectable, companion diagnostic tests can be developed to identify these alterations. Once we have identified a target, we will initially use existing diagnostic tools, such as next-generation sequencing, or NGS, to identify patient subsets that we believe will derive increased benefit from our product candidates. As we advance our product candidates clinically and determine the most important screening criteria, we intend to develop companion diagnostics as appropriate, with the help of technology partners, to seek to identify patients, and if our clinical development programs are successful, to support the potential registration and marketing of our product candidates.
 Our clinical development strategy employs a disciplined approach designed to identify response signals early in development and reduce development risks. Based upon the data from our preclinical studies as well as any data from any third-party preclinical and clinical data, we seek to evaluate our product candidates in well-defined patient populations and believe this gives us a higher likelihood of demonstrating a clinical benefit. This approach is intended to allow for early insight into the therapeutic potential of a product candidate and the possibility for rapid clinical development and expedited regulatory strategies.
 We are employing some or all the steps above across our various programs as we advance our pipeline of targeted therapies. We believe the advantages of such an approach are the potential for higher translatability from preclinical to clinical studies, our ability to leverage clinical and pathology trends towards comprehensive tumor profiling and the potential for expedited clinical development.
 Clinical Programs and Pipeline
 Tipifarnib —An Oral Farnesyl Transferase Inhibitor
 Overview
 Tipifarnib is a new chemical entity, or NCE, and a member of a class of product candidates called farnesyl transferase inhibitors, or FTIs. We in-licensed tipifarnib from Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, or Janssen, an affiliate of Johnson & Johnson, in December 2014. Previously, tipifarnib was studied in more than 5,000 oncology patients in more than 70 clinical trials and was observed to be generally well tolerated with a manageable side effect profile as a single agent. Although tipifarnib has a well-established safety profile and has demonstrated compelling and durable anti-cancer activity in certain patients, its activity has not been sufficient in any prior clinical trial to support marketing approval by the FDA. However, clinical and preclinical data suggest that, in certain selected patient populations, tipifarnib has the potential to provide significant benefit to cancer patients with limited treatment options. We have worldwide rights to tipifarnib in all indications other than virology.
 
4


Protein Farnesylation and Tipifarnib
 Tipifarnib is a potent and selective inhibitor of protein farnesylation. Certain cellular proteins must associate with the intracellular membrane to function. One of the mechanisms by which proteins are associated with the inner cell membrane is farnesylation, which modifies the protein by attaching a farnesyl group. Another, related mechanism of attachment of proteins to the membrane is protein geranylgeranylation, which is attachment of a geranylgeranyl group to the protein. Protein farnesylation and protein geranylgeranylation, collectively called protein prenylation, cause intracellular proteins to become anchored to the inside of the cell membrane due to the hydrophobic nature of the farnesyl and geranylgeranyl groups.
 The enzyme that catalyzes the attachment of the farnesyl groups to proteins is called farnesyl transferase. Small molecule inhibitors of the farnesyl transferase enzyme have been discovered, and several inhibitors including tipifarnib have been evaluated in human clinical trials. The small molecule inhibitors are commonly referred to as FTIs. Many proteins involved in cellular signaling undergo prenylation because they must be associated with other proteins at the inner cellular membrane of the tumor cell to function properly. Treatment of tumors with FTIs results in the reversal of several hallmarks of cancer, including mitotic arrest, induction of apoptosis, growth inhibition, invasion, angiogenesis and tumor growth, as well as induction of tumor regression in animal models.
 Among the hundreds of proteins estimated to be prenylated, some are either exclusively farnesylated or geranylgeranylated; some are both farnesylated and geranylgeranylated, and others are naturally farnesylated but become geranylgeranylated, when the farnesyl transferase enzyme is inhibited. HRAS is an example of a protein that is exclusively farnesylated while KRAS and NRAS are two proteins that are naturally farnesylated but may become geranylgeranylated upon treatment with FTIs.
 Solid Tumors with HRAS Mutations
 Retrovirus-associated DNA sequences, or RAS, is a family of membrane-associated proteins that are involved in regulating cell division in response to growth factor stimulation. HRAS is a member of the RAS family, which includes the other proto-oncogenes: KRAS and NRAS. Collectively, the three RAS genes constitute one of the most frequently mutated families of oncogenes in human cancers. Although HRAS mutations are less common overall relative to KRAS and NRAS mutations in human cancers, they have a higher prevalence in cancers of the upper digestive tract, skin, thyroid and urinary bladder.
 The HRAS protein is involved in regulating cell division in response to growth factor stimulation. Growth factors act by binding cell surface receptors that span the cell’s plasma membrane. Once activated, receptors stimulate signal transduction events in the cytoplasm, a process by which proteins and second messengers relay signals from outside the cell to the cell nucleus and instruct the cell to grow or divide. HRAS is localized in the plasma membrane, and it is an early player in many signal transduction pathways. HRAS acts as a molecular on/off switch – once HRAS is turned “on” it recruits and activates proteins necessary for the propagation of the receptor’s signal. In certain tumors, mutations in HRAS or its upstream regulators cause HRAS to be permanently “on,” resulting in persistent activation of downstream growth and proliferation signals that drive tumor cell growth. FTIs work to prevent the aberrant growth and proliferation of cells that are dependent on these signaling pathways by inhibiting protein farnesylation and subsequent membrane localization of HRAS, thereby switching HRAS “off.” HRAS membrane localization is solely dependent on protein farnesylation, and therefore we believe that tipifarnib has the potential for the treatment of HRAS mutant solid tumors.
 HNSCC is one of a number of different types of cancer that arises from squamous cells. Squamous cells are found in the outer layer of skin and in the mucous membranes, which are the moist tissues that line body cavities such as the airways and intestines. HNSCC develops in the mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, and throat and is classified by its location. HNSCC is caused by a variety of factors that can alter the DNA in cells. The strongest risk factors for developing this form of cancer are tobacco use, including smoking or using chewing tobacco, and heavy alcohol consumption. In addition, infection with certain strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, is linked to the development of HNSCC. HPV infection is one of the factors that accounts for the increasing incidence of HNSCC among younger people.
 Another type of cancer that can result from squamous cells is NSCLC. Sq-NSCLC begins in the tissue that lines the air passages in the lungs and are most often located centrally in the larger bronchi that join the trachea to the lung. Since it tends to be located near the large airways, Sq-NSCLC often causes symptoms earlier than other forms of lung cancer. Sq-NSCLC is more common in men and is more closely correlated with a history of tobacco smoking than most other types of lung cancer.
 
5


Clinical Development of Tipifarnib in HRAS Mutant Solid Tumors
 Phase 2 Clinical Trial. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial in May 2015 to test the hypothesis whether tipifarnib could be used as a treatment for advanced tumors with a documented HRAS mutation. We designed this clinical trial based on our preclinical data which demonstrated that tipifarnib inhibits HRAS mutant cell proliferation and HRAS tumor growth in mouse models. The clinical trial was originally designed to enroll two cohorts of 18 patients each. Under this design, if more than one response is observed in a cohort after the first 11 evaluable patients (stage 1), seven additional subjects are enrolled (stage 2). If one or no objective response is observed in a cohort, the cohort is closed to further enrollment. The clinical trial is considered positive if at least four responses are observed in a cohort (out of 18 subjects). The primary endpoint is objective response rate, and tumor response assessments are conducted according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (confirmation of response is required).
 
Cohort 1 enrolled patients with malignant thyroid tumors with HRAS mutations, independently of thyroid histology. Ten evaluable patients have been enrolled in Stage 1 of Cohort 1. Although evidence of prolonged disease stabilization has been observed in several patients, we have seen no objective responses within the first stage of the thyroid cohort and the cohort has been closed to further enrollment.
 Cohort 2 was initially designed to enroll any patient with a non-hematological HRAS mutant tumor other than thyroid cancer who meets the eligibility criteria. In March 2017, we presented data from stage 1 of this trial at the 15th International Congress on Targeted Anticancer Therapies, including data from a small cohort of three patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC. We reported that, among the three patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC treated with tipifarnib, we had observed two patients with confirmed partial responses. Based upon these data, we amended the clinical trial protocol to focus enrollment in Cohort 2 entirely on patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC. 
 In September 2017, we reported that our Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC achieved its primary efficacy endpoint with four confirmed, partial responses among the first six evaluable HNSCC patients enrolled in the trial. Updated data were reported in February 2018, at the 2018 Multidisciplinary Head and Neck Cancers Symposium. Nine patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC had been enrolled in the Phase 2 trial as of the February 8, 2018 data cutoff date. Five out of the six evaluable patients achieved a confirmed, partial response as defined by standard RECIST criteria, including durable responses of more than 18 months in two patients. The sixth evaluable patient experienced tumor shrinkage and prolonged disease stabilization. Three additional patients were enrolled since the last trial update in October 2017, however, none of the three additional patients was evaluable as of the February 8, 2018 data cutoff date; one patient passed away shortly after joining the study, one withdrew consent and one had not yet reached on-treatment disease assessment. All patients joined the trial upon progression from at least one line of therapy, including chemotherapy, cetuximab or immune therapy, with patients having experienced a median of two prior therapies (range, 1-4). Tipifarnib was generally well tolerated. The most common treatment-related adverse events (grade ≥ 3) were anemia (33.3%), nausea (22.2%), neutropenia, vomiting and decreased appetite (11.1% each). Our clinical and preclinical data suggest that, among cancers with HRAS mutations, squamous cell tumors, such as HNSCC and Sq-NSCLC, are sensitive tumors to treatment with tipifarnib, and as demonstrated from our Phase 2 HNSCC data, treatment with tipifarnib can, in some patients, produce durable responses. Following the achievement of the primary efficacy endpoint in our ongoing Phase 2 trial, we further amended the clinical trial protocol to add a third cohort with patients having HRAS mutant squamous cell carcinomas other than HRAS mutant HNSCC.
 Phase 2 Non-Treatment Study - SEQ-HN. We are initiating a multi-center, global, case-control study, which we call SEQ-HN, to determine the treatment outcomes of patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with HRAS mutations. The primary objective of this study is to determine the objective response rate of first-line therapy in patients with HNSCC that carry HRAS mutations compared to those without a known HRAS mutation. In addition, this screening and outcomes study is expected to enable the identification of patients with HRAS mutations for potential enrollment into our ongoing Phase 2 study or, upon initiation, our potentially registration-enabling Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC. We anticipate initiating the SEQ-HN study in the first half of 2018.
 Potentially Registration-Enabling Phase 2 Clinical Trial in Patients with HRAS Mutant HNSCC – AIM-HN. Based on the positive results observed to date in our ongoing Phase 2 trial in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC, and following feedback from the FDA and other regulatory authorities, we are planning to initiate a registration-directed Phase 2 clinical trial, in patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC, in the second half of 2018. The trial, which we call AIM-HN, will be a global, multicenter, open label, single-arm study of at least 59 patients with recurrent or metastatic HRAS mutant HNSCC. Eligible patients may include: patients who have progressed following platinum containing therapy; patients who have progressed following platinum containing therapy and additional lines of therapy, such as immune therapy; first-line patients with tumor progression or recurrence within six months of systemic platinum containing therapy in the adjuvant or primary setting (i.e. after surgery or chemotherapy-radiation for primary disease); and, subject to further input from the FDA following submission of the final protocol, patients who have progressed following first-line treatment with a non-platinum containing therapy. The primary endpoint of the AIM-HN trial will be objective response rate as determined using RECIST 1.1 criteria 
 
6


and as determined by independent radiological review. Inclusion in the study will require confirmation of HRAS mutation. In the minutes from our recent End of Phase 2 meeting, the FDA stated that the AIM-HN trial as currently designed, may be adequate to support an NDA seeking accelerated approval. The FDA further noted that the issue should be revisited at the time of a pre-NDA meeting. 
 Investigator-Sponsored Trials in HRAS Mutant Solid Tumors. In addition to our company-sponsored clinical trials in HRAS mutant solid tumors, a Phase 2 investigator-sponsored clinical trial of tipifarnib for the treatment of advanced, previously treated urothelial carcinomas that carry HRAS mutations, is ongoing. This clinical trial is sponsored by the Samsung Medical Center in Korea and is designed to enroll at least 18 patients. The primary endpoint of this clinical trial is objective response rate, and secondary endpoints include progression-free survival, duration of response and safety.
 We also anticipate that a Phase 2 investigator-sponsored clinical trial of tipifarnib for the treatment of HRAS mutant Sq-NSCLC will be initiated in 2018. This clinical trial will be sponsored by the Spanish Lung Cancer Group and will be designed to enroll at least 18 patients. The primary endpoint of this clinical trial will be objective response rate, and secondary endpoints will include progression-free survival, duration of response and safety.
Companion Diagnostics in HRAS Mutant Solid Tumors. Patients are currently being enrolled in the ongoing Phase 2 HRAS mutant tumor clinical trial based either upon information from the clinical sites on the patients’ tumor HRAS mutation status or upon this information obtained from third-party laboratories who conduct genetic screening on patient samples for the clinical sites. For our planned AIM-HN clinical trial, we are collaborating with third parties for the development and validation of a companion diagnostic test to aid in the selection of patients with HRAS mutant tumors and to prepare and submit an investigational device exemption, or IDE, for use of the assay in such clinical trial. We currently expect that the companion diagnostic test will be a qualitative polymerase chain reaction, or qPCR, -based assay. A qPCR-based assay would be technically similar to the qPCR-based assay already developed and approved by the FDA for detection of mutations in the KRAS gene. We expect that regulatory approval of tipifarnib as a treatment for patients with HRAS mutant tumors will require FDA approval of an HRAS assay in the form of a companion diagnostic test that has been validated for accuracy, precision and reproducibility.
Clinical Development of Tipifarnib in Hematologic Malignancies
 We are evaluating the potential utility of tipifarnib in several hematologic malignancies, including PTCL, MDS, AML and CMML and have ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials in PTCL, MDS and CMML. Our interest in these indications stems, in part, from prior clinical data obtained by Janssen or independent investigators, which demonstrated that tipifarnib can drive meaningful clinical benefit, including examples of objective responses, and in some cases complete responses. However, although tipifarnib demonstrated evidence of clinical activity in certain patients with hematologic malignancies, including AML, MDS and PTCL, no molecular mechanism of action was identified at that time that could explain its activity in those patient populations or allow for a strategy to permit the identification and enrollment of patients most likely to benefit from treatment with tipifarnib. 
 In June 2017, we presented preliminary results from our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in PTCL, including the identification of the CXCL12 pathway as a potential therapeutic target of tipifarnib. CXCL12 is a chemokine that is secreted in large amounts by lymph nodes, bone marrow stroma, liver, and lung, and plays key roles in tumor invasion, bone marrow homing and site of metastasis. Among its multiple functions, CXCL12 is essential for homing of myeloid cells to the bone marrow and lymphoid cells to lymph nodes and other organs. Based on our initial observations of the role of CXCL12 as a potential biomarker of clinical activity in PTCL, we began to investigate the role of the CXCL12 pathway in other hematologic malignancies.
 In December 2017, at the American Society of Hematology Annual Meeting and Exposition, or ASH meeting, we also presented new findings that identified activation of CXCL12 pathway as measured by the ratio of CXCR4/CXCR2 gene expression and bone marrow homing of myeloid cells as potential biomarkers of tipifarnib activity in certain hematologic malignancies. CXCR4 is a receptor for CXCL12, and CXCR4 and CXCR2 are myeloid receptors that regulate bone marrow homing and mobilization of myeloid cells, respectively. The results were obtained by analyzing data from previous clinical trials of tipifarnib in AML and MDS as well as data from our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in CMML. 
 
7


Although our analyses of gene expression from prior Janssen AML trials and data from our Phase 2 clinical trials in PTCL and CMML were conducted on a retrospective basis, we believe that data from these clinical trials all implicate the CXCL12 pathway in the activity of tipifarnib. Moreover, when we retrospectively stratify the patients on the basis of activation markers of the CXCL12 pathway, we observe clinical benefit that is consistent across different endpoints, treatment settings and indications. We are now prospectively investigating this pathway and the role of bone marrow homing as potential biomarkers of activity for tipifarnib in our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of tipifarnib in various hematologic malignancies.
 Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
 Lymphoma is the most common blood cancer. The two main forms of lymphoma are Hodgkin’s lymphoma, or HL, and Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, or NHL. PTCL consists of a group of rare and usually aggressive (fast-growing) NHLs that develop from mature T-cells. PTCLs are sub-classified into various subtypes, each of which are typically considered to be separate diseases based on their distinct clinical differences. Most of these subtypes are rare; the three most common subtypes are PTCL not otherwise specified, or PTCL-NOS, angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, or AITL, and anaplastic large-cell lymphoma, or ALCL, that collectively account for approximately 70% of all cases of PTCL in the United States.
 Phase 2 Clinical Trial in PTCL. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial in September 2015 to evaluate the hypothesis that tipifarnib can be used as a treatment for relapsed or refractory PTCL. The Phase 2 clinical trial was initially designed to investigate the anti-tumor activity of tipifarnib in 18 patients with advanced PTCL. The primary endpoint is objective response rate, and tumor response assessments are conducted according to the International Workshop Criteria for the assessment of responses in lymphoma. 
 In December 2017, we reported updated, preliminary data from our Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in an unselected population of patients with PTCL at the ASH meeting. The results of the study, which was conducted in patients having a median of four prior lines of therapy, showed that patients having elevated levels of CXCL12 gene expression and/or a reference nucleotide in a single nucleotide polymorphism, or SNP, of the non-coding region of the CXCL12 gene, or 3UTR, had a higher rate of clinical benefit in terms of objective response rate and progression free survival in this advanced patient population. Patients with AITL expressed high levels of CXCL12. Based upon these observations, we are now enrolling two expansion cohorts in PTCL patients, the first in patients with AITL histology, and the second in patients with other PTCL histologies who express CXCL12 reference 3UTR SNP sequences, as we seek to verify the initial observations and validate CXCL12 as a biomarker. 
 Myelodysplastic Syndromes
 MDS are a group of hematopoietic stem cell malignancies with significant morbidity and mortality. MDS is characterized by ineffective blood cell production, or hematopoiesis, leading to low blood cell counts, or cytopenias, and high risk of progression to AML. MDS is a highly heterogeneous disease, and the severity of symptoms and disease progression can vary widely among patients. The current standard clinical tool to evaluate risk stratification, including survival and risk for AML transformation, and treatment options is the revised International Prognostic Scoring System, or IPSS-R. The IPSS-R differentiates patients into five risk groups (Very Low, Low, Intermediate, High, Very High) based on evaluation of cytogenetics, percentage of blasts (undifferentiated blood cells) in the bone marrow, hemoglobin levels, and platelet and neutrophil counts.
 Based on our observations in PTCL, we have been evaluating the CXCL12 pathway as a potential therapeutic target of tipifarnib in MDS. Our retrospective analysis of prior Janssen clinical data in patients with MDS identified that patients with neutropenia at study entry represented a group that derived greater clinical benefit from tipifarnib relative to patients who were not neutropenic at study entry. The clinical relevance of neutropenia to the CXCL12 pathway is that patients with activation of the CXCL12 pathway have higher rates of neutropenia. We hypothesized that the observation of isolated neutropenia, or neutropenia without myelosuppression, could be employed as a surrogate marker of high CXCL12 pathway activity in the bone marrow, and consequently, enhanced sensitivity to tipifarnib.
 Phase 2 Clinical Trial in MDS. Our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with MDS of any risk group, is evaluating prospectively whether neutropenia at study entry could enrich for responses to tipifarnib. We are enrolling two cohorts of up to 18 patients, each with a two-stage design. The primary endpoint is objective response. The trial is enrolling patients who have failed up to two prior therapies. Two responses are needed to move to the second stage of each cohort, and the trial is positive with four or more responses in either cohort. We are also evaluating CXCL12 pathway markers in MDS patients to determine whether they could be of utility for patient selection. 
 
8


Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
 CMML is a disorder of bone marrow stem cells in which an increase in white blood cells, or monocytosis, is a defining feature. The clinical presentation of CMML varies from predominantly myelodysplastic, an ineffective production of blood cells, to predominantly myeloproliferative, an overproduction of blood cells.
 Phase 2 Clinical Trial in CMML. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in CMML in October 2016, designed to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of tipifarnib in CMML. We have identified potential biomarkers that could be predictive of response to tipifarnib in CMML patients. Two of these potential biomarkers are the proto-oncogenes, NRAS and KRAS. Mutations in NRAS or KRAS are present in approximately 30% of CMML patients. We have hypothesized that patients with NRAS mutant CMML will be less sensitive to treatment with tipifarnib relative to patients with the wild-type NRAS because NRAS will remain a driver of the disease even upon treatment with tipifarnib. We have retrospectively stratified patients based on RAS mutational status in our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial.
 In December 2017, we reported positive, preliminary results from our Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in CMML at the ASH meeting. As of the data cutoff date of November 7, 2017, all nine evaluable patients in the study with KRAS or NRAS wild-type CMML had achieved stable disease or better, including three objective responses as assessed using the MDS/myeloproliferative neoplasia, or MPN, International Working Group criteria. The primary objective of the study was met with an overall response rate of 33% in patients with KRAS and NRAS wild-type CMML. The study enrolled 24 patients of whom 16 were evaluable for response as of the data cutoff date. Nine patients had tumors with KRAS and NRAS wild-type status and seven patients had RAS mutant tumors.
 Although the signal observed in RAS wild-type patients is encouraging, we continue to evaluate other potential biomarkers of activity. Based upon the results of our PTCL trial in which we identified CXCL12 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for tipifarnib, we are also evaluating potential biomarkers of the activation of the CXCL12 pathway in the patients in our ongoing Phase 2 trial in CMML. Additionally, based on our initial findings that identified the ratio of CXCR4/CXCR2 gene expression and bone marrow homing of myeloid cells as potential biomarkers of tipifarnib activity in certain hematologic malignancies, we are amending this Phase 2 clinical trial to select or stratify patients with MDS/MPN overlap syndrome, which includes CMML, or with AML, based on the expression level of CXCR gene family markers, and markers of bone marrow homing. 
 Acute Myeloid Leukemia
 AML is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells or platelets. In prior clinical studies conducted by Janssen and independent investigators, tipifarnib has demonstrated clinical responses in adults with refractory and relapsed AML and in older adults with newly diagnosed poor-risk AML. However, the activity of tipifarnib in those studies was not sufficient to support registration of tipifarnib. Our analyses of data from prior clinical trials sponsored by Janssen and others in AML and MDS, as well as data from our ongoing clinical trial in CMML, has identified activation of the CXCL12 pathway, as measured by the ratio of CXCR4/CXCR2 gene expression and bone marrow homing of myeloid cells, as a potential biomarkers of tipifarnib activity in patients with AML. With our amendment of our Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with CMML to include a cohort of relapsed and/or refractory AML patients with elevated levels of potential CXCL12 pathway biomarkers, our goal is to validate the utility of CXCL12 pathway biomarkers as a strategy for patient enrichment in relapsed/refractory AML. We anticipate initiating enrollment in this AML cohort in the second half of 2018.
Companion Diagnostics for Tipifarnib in Hematologic Malignancies
 If the results of any of our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials in hematologic malignances are positive, and any of our potential biomarkers, such as the presence or absence of the SNP in the CXCL12 gene in PTCL patients or the ratio of expression of the CXCR4/CXCR2 genes in the MDS and CMML studies, are shown to be predictive of response to tipifarnib, we would expect to partner development and validation of a companion diagnostic test to aid in the selection of patients in subsequent clinical trials of tipifarnib in the respective patient population(s). Genetic assays detecting the presence or absence of certain of these genes and markers are already commercially available.
 
9


Registration Strategy for Tipifarnib in Hematologic Malignancies
 The objective of our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of tipifarnib in hematologic malignancies is to confirm the clinical activity of tipifarnib, validate biomarker hypotheses and optimize dose and schedule for each disease to inform whether to proceed to registration-enabling studies. For each disease indication, we plan to evaluate a number of criteria in determining whether to advance tipifarnib. These criteria include: biomarker validation, evidence of durable, clinical benefit, potential for rapid clinical development, potential to move into earlier lines of therapy, the potential for patent and regulatory exclusivity and the commercial potential. We anticipate we will have additional clinical data in hematological malignancies in the second half of 2018. Our goal is to demonstrate proof-of-concept in one or more disease indications by the end of 2018. 
ERK Inhibitor Program
 Overview
 We are advancing KO-947, a small molecule inhibitor of ERK, as a potential treatment for patients with tumors that have dysregulated activity due to mutations or other mechanisms in the MAPK pathway, including lung cancers, colorectal cancers and pancreatic cancers. We dosed the first patient in our Phase 1 clinical trial of KO-947 in April 2017. We acquired KO-947 from Araxes Pharma LLC, or Araxes, a private biopharmaceutical company.
Preclinical Data for KO-947
 KO-947, demonstrates potent inhibition of the ERK kinase and high selectivity relative to a panel of approximately 400 kinases. KO-947 also demonstrates prolonged inhibition of the MAPK pathway in vivo. Following a single dose in vivo, KO-947 demonstrated a near complete inhibition of MAPK pathway signaling for more than 72 hours. The prolonged inhibition of the pathway supports the potential for intermittent dosing schedules.
 KO-947 has been evaluated in a panel of more than 200 different PDX models comprising 20 different clinical indications, utilizing intermittent dosing, to identify and prioritize potential lead clinical indications. Preclinical data presented at the American Association for Cancer Research, or AACR, Annual Meeting in April 2017 showed that KO-947 demonstrated robust and durable activity, including tumor regressions, in lung, colorectal and pancreatic tumors harboring KRAS and BRAF mutations and in squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck and esophagus and lacking mutations in the MAPK pathway. In each of these subsets of tumors characterized by mutation or dysregulation of the MAPK pathway, KO-947 demonstrated response rates of greater than 50%. Through our preclinical studies, we have identified potential development opportunities including KRAS and BRAF mutant cancers and squamous cell carcinomas. In addition, we have identified potential biomarkers to enable patient selection strategies for clinical development. 
Phase 1 Clinical Trial of KO-947
 We initiated our Phase 1 clinical trial of KO-947 in April 2017. The trial is designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, of KO-947 in patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic, relapsed and/or refractory, non-hematological malignancies. If an MTD cannot be identified, a recommended Phase 2 dose will be determined. In addition, extension cohorts may be conducted to further characterize the safety and tolerability of KO-947 and seek to provide preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity. Currently, two tumor-specific cohorts, NSCLC adenocarcinomas with mutations in KRAS or BRAF and squamous cell carcinomas, have been identified as potential extension cohorts. We anticipate having data from our Phase 1 trial in the second half of 2018.
 Menin-MLL Program
 We are developing orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitors of the menin-MLL interaction for the treatment of genetically defined subsets of acute leukemias, including AML and acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or ALL. The menin-MLL program was licensed from the Regents of The University of Michigan, or the University of Michigan. We nominated KO-539 as a development candidate in December 2016, and we are currently advancing it through preclinical development. Pending successful completion of investigational new drug, or IND enabling studies, we anticipate an IND submission for KO-539 in late 2018 or early 2019.
 MLL-rearranged, or MLL-r, leukemias, are characterized by chromosomal translocations of the MLL gene that are primarily found in patients with AML and ALL and affect both children and adults. These translocations form oncogenes encoding MLL fusion proteins, which play a causative role in the onset, development and progression of MLL-r leukemias. MLL fusion proteins drive the up-regulation of expression of small set of target genes involved in the malignant transformation of blood cells, however, the fusion protein is critically dependent on binding the oncogenic co-factor menin to function. This implies that the menin-MLL interaction represents a valuable target for molecular therapy and supports the development of inhibitors of the menin-MLL protein-protein interaction.
 
10


The target genes of the MLL fusion proteins are also found to be overexpressed in a broader subset of AMLs characterized by mutations in NPM1, DNMT3A, IDH1, IDH2 and a different mutation in the MLL gene, known as a MLL-partial tandem duplication, or MLL-PTD. These mutations also appear to be dependent on the interaction between menin and MLL, suggesting that the menin-MLL complex is a central node in epigenetic dysregulation driven by distinct oncogenic driver mutations known to be important in AML and other hematologic malignancies.
 In preclinical studies, KO-539 has demonstrated potent and selective inhibition of the proliferation of MLL-r leukemia cell lines. In November 2017, we reported preclinical data at the AACR-NCI-EORTC International Conference on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics showing robust and durable efficacy in multiple in vivo models of AML characterized by MLL-rearrangements or mutations in NPM1, DNMT3A, IDH1 and IDH2. We have further demonstrated that the inhibition of the menin-MLL interaction results in the down-regulation of MLL fusion target genes and an up-regulation of markers of differentiation.
 License and Asset Purchase Agreements
 Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
 In December 2014, we entered into a license agreement with Janssen, which was amended in June 2016, which grants us exclusive global rights to develop and commercialize tipifarnib in all indications other than virology and includes the right to grant sublicenses. We are obligated under the license agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize tipifarnib and, with the exception of the transfer to us without cost of Janssen’s existing inventory of tipifarnib material, we are responsible for all future development and commercialization costs for tipifarnib. Under the license agreement, Janssen has a first right to negotiate for an exclusive license back from us to develop and commercialize tipifarnib on terms to be negotiated in good faith. Janssen may exercise this right of first negotiation during the 60-day period following completion of a Phase 2 clinical trial of tipifarnib in HRAS mutant patients in oncology and delivery by us to Janssen of a complete data package from such clinical trial.
 Under the terms of the license agreement, in January 2015 we issued a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $1.0 million to Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JJDC, Inc., which automatically converted into shares of common stock in our March 2015 private placement. When and if commercial sales of tipifarnib begin, we are obligated to pay Janssen tiered royalties of low double digit percentages of our net sales, depending on the amount of our net sales, with standard provisions for royalty offsets in the event of generic competition or compulsory licenses, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the later of the expiration of the last to expire valid claim of the licensed patents covering the licensed product in the field in such country the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity with respect to such product in such country, and ten years from our first commercial sale. We are also required to make regulatory milestone payments to Janssen of up to $25.0 million in the aggregate, if specified regulatory approvals are achieved for the first indication and additional payments for each subsequent indication if specified regulatory approvals are achieved. In addition, we are required to make sales milestone payments of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate if specified sales thresholds are surpassed. If we grant sublicenses under the license from Janssen, we are required to pay to Janssen a percentage o
f any upfront, lump-sum or milestone payments received from our sublicensee, subject to certain exclusions for regulatory milestone payments due under the license agreement.
 The license agreement with Janssen will remain in effect until the expiration of all of our royalty and sublicense revenue obligations to Janssen, determined on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate the license agreement earlier. If we fail to meet our obligations under the license agreement and are unable to cure such failure within specified time periods, Janssen can terminate the license agreement, resulting in a loss of our licensed rights to tipifarnib.
 Araxes Pharma LLC
 In December 2014, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Araxes, which was amended and restated in February 2015, under which we purchased all of Araxes’ patent rights in its ERK inhibitor program, including KO-947 and additional backup compounds, and related intellectual property. When and if commercial sales of a product candidate covered by the purchased patent rights begin, we are obligated to pay Araxes tiered royalties of low single digit percentages of our net sales, depending on the amount of our net sales with standard provisions for royalty offsets. We are also required to make development and regulatory milestone payments to Araxes of up to $9.7 million in the aggregate if specified development events and regulatory approvals are achieved. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, in December 2014 we issued a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $0.5 million to Araxes, which automatically converted into shares of common stock in our March 2015 private placement.
 
11


The University of Michigan
 In December 2014, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Michigan, which was amended in March 2015, July 2015, September 2016, February 2017, May 2017 and August 2017, which grants us exclusive worldwide rights under certain patent rights to compounds in our menin-MLL program. Under this license agreement, we paid the University of Michigan an upfront nonrefundable license fee and are obligated to pay the University of Michigan annual license maintenance fees. We are also required to make development and regulatory milestone payments to the University of Michigan of up to $3.4 million in the aggregate if specified development and regulatory events are achieved for the first indication and additional payments for each subsequent indication. If we grant sublicenses under the license from the University of Michigan, we are required to pay the University of Michigan a percentage of certain amounts received from the sublicenses. When and if commercial sales of products covered by the licensed patent rights begin, we are obligated to pay the University of Michigan tiered royalties of low single digit percentages of our net sales depending on the amount of our net sales with standard provision for royalty offsets and sales-based milestones. All future development, regulatory and commercial work on the licensed compounds will be completed fully by us and at our sole expense. The University of Michigan retains the right to use the licensed compounds for non-commercial research, internal and/or educational purposes, with the right to grant the same limited rights to other non-profit research institutions. Under the agreement, as a result of our March 2015 private placement, we issued to the University of Michigan 79,113 shares of our common stock at a fair value of $0.5 million. The license agreement with the University of Michigan will terminate upon the last-to-expire patent rights, or may be terminated by us at any time with 90 days written notice of termination or terminated by the University of Michigan upon a bankruptcy by us, payment failure by us that is not cured within 30 days or a material breach of the agreement by us that is not cured within 60 days.
Research and Development
 Our research and development expenses were $26.4 million, $20.4 million and $17.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. See Part II – Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report for additional detail regarding our research and development activities.
Competition
 The development and commercialization of new products to treat cancer is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Although we believe that our knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face substantial competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, and biotechnology companies worldwide. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources. Smaller and early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. As a result, our competitors may discover, develop, license or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.
 We face competition with respect to our current product candidates, and we will face competition with respect to future product candidates, from segments of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other related markets that pursue approaches to targeting molecular alterations and signaling pathways associated with cancer. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we do or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, more convenient, less costly or possessing better safety profiles than our products, and these competitors may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products.
 In addition, we will need to develop our product candidates in collaboration with diagnostic companies and will face competition from other companies in establishing these collaborations. Our competitors will also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, management and commercial personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.
 Furthermore, we also face competition more broadly across the market for cost-effective and reimbursable cancer treatments. The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy, including chemotherapy, hormone therapy and targeted drug therapy or a combination of such methods. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. While our product candidates, if any are approved, may compete with these existing drug and other therapies, to the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates may not be competitive with them. Some of these drugs are branded and subject to patent protection, and others are available on a generic basis. Insurers 
 
12


and other third-party payors may also encourage the use of generic products or specific branded products. We expect that if our product candidates are approved, they will be priced at a premium over competitive generic, including branded generic, products. As a result, obtaining market acceptance of, and gaining significant share of the market for, any of our product candidates that we successfully introduce to the market will pose challenges. In addition, many companies are developing new therapeutics, and we cannot predict what the standard of care will be as our product candidates progress through clinical development.
 Tipifarnib Competition
 Although there are currently no approved drugs targeting farnesyl transferase, we are aware of several compounds that are now or have previously been in clinical development, including Merck’s lonafarnib, Bristol-Myers Squibb’s BMS-214662, Astellas Pharma’s (formerly OSI Pharmaceuticals) CP-609,754, and AstraZeneca’s AZD3409. To our knowledge, there are no ongoing clinical trials evaluating any of these agents for the treatment of cancer. However, the initiation of clinical development of another of these agents in an oncology setting could become competitively significant, and if tipifarnib or our other product candidates do not offer sustainable advantages over competing products, we may not be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors.
 Even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, the resulting products would compete with a variety of established drugs in the targeted therapeutic indications of PTCL and MDS. Competitive drugs currently approved for PTCL include belinostat (Beleodaq®) and pralatrexate (Folotyn®), marketed by Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, romidepsin (Istodax®), marketed by Celgene, and brentuximab vedotin (Adcetris®) (for ALCL), marketed by Seattle Genetics. Competitive drugs currently approved for MDS include azacytidine (Vidaza®) and lenalidomide (Revlimid®), marketed by Celgene, and decitabine (Dacogen®) marketed by Otsuka and Johnson & Johnson. Although th
ere are currently no drugs approved specifically for the treatment of HRAS-mutant solid tumors, there are several targeted therapies approved for the treatment of HNSCC, including Eli Lilly’s/Merck KGaA’s cetuximab (Erbitux®), Bristol Myers Squibb’s nivolumab (Opdivo®) and Merck’s pembrolizumab (Keytruda®), thyroid cancer, including AstraZeneca’s vandetanib (Caprelsa®), Bayer’s sorafenib (Nexavar®), Exelixis’ cabozantinib (Cometriq®) and Eisai’s lenvatinib (Lenvima®), and Sq-NSCLC, including Keytruda, Opdivo and Eli Lilly’s necitumumab (Portrazza®). There are no targeted therapies approved for the treatment of urothelial cancer or CMML.
 ERK Inhibitor Competition
 While there are currently no approved drugs targeting ERK, we are aware of several compounds that are in clinical development, including Roche/Genentech’s ravoxertinib (RG-7842/GDC-0994), BioMed Valley Discoveries’ ulixertinib (BVD-523), Eli Lilly’s LY-3214996, Merck’s MK-8353, Novartis’ LTT-462 and Asana’s ASN-007. Furthermore, it is possible that other companies are also engaged in discovery or preclinical development of compounds targeting ERK. These competitors, if successful in clinical development, may achieve clinical activity, regulatory approval and market adoption in advance of our compounds, constraining the ability of our compounds to gain significant market share. Although we believe that KO-947 presents several potential advantages relative to these aforementioned candidates, including potency, prolonged pathway inhibition and the ability to be administered as an intravenous infusion, these results may not translate to superior therapeutic benefit in clinical trials.
Menin-MLL Inhibitor Competition
 Although there are currently no approved drugs targeting the menin-MLL interaction, we are aware of other companies engaged in discovery or preclinical development of menin-MLL inhibitors including Syndax and Aurigene/Orion. However, to our knowledge, there are no drugs approved or in clinical trials targeting the menin-MLL protein-protein interaction. Although there are no targeted therapies approved specifically for the treatment of MLL-r leukemias, there are several products in clinical development, including Epizyme’s EPZ-5676 and Novartis’s midostaurin, as well as Pfizer’s palbociclib (IBRANCE®), which has received accelerated approval in combination with letrozole for the treatment of postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive, or ER+, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative, or HER2-, advanced breast cancer as initial endocrine-based therapy for their metastatic disease.
 
13


Commercialization
 We have not yet established a sales, marketing or product distribution infrastructure because our lead candidates are still in preclinical or clinical development. We anticipate that we will aim to retain commercial rights in North America for any of our product candidates for which we may in the future receive marketing approvals. We may also seek to retain commercial rights in Europe for any of our product candidates for which we may in the future receive marketing approvals. We currently anticipate that, if and when appropriate, we will seek to access the North American or European oncology markets through a focused, specialized, internal sales force.
 Subject to receiving marketing approvals, we expect to commence commercialization activities by building a focused internal sales and marketing team in North America to sell our products. We may also build a focused internal sales and marketing team in Europe to sell our products. We believe that such an approach will enable us to address the community of oncologists who are the key specialists in treating the patient populations for which our current product candidates are being developed. Outside of regions where we maintain commercial rights, we may enter into distribution and other marketing arrangements with third parties for any of our product candidates that obtain marketing approval in foreign jurisdictions.
 We also aim to build a marketing and sales management force to create and implement marketing strategies for any products that we may in the future market through our own sales teams and to oversee and support our sales force. We anticipate that our goals for any such marketing force include developing educational initiatives with respect to any approved products and establishing relationships with thought leaders in relevant fields of medicine.
 We currently expect that any third parties with which we may collaborate in the future on the development of any commercial companion diagnostics for use with our therapeutic products will most likely hold the commercial rights to those diagnostic products. We expect that we would coordinate closely with any future diagnostic collaborators in connection with the marketing and sale of such diagnostic products and our related therapeutic products.
 Manufacturing
 We do not own or operate, and currently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing as well as for commercial manufacture of any products that we may commercialize. All of our product candidates are small molecules and are manufactured in synthetic processes from available starting materials. The chemistry does not currently require unusual equipment in the manufacturing process. We expect to continue to develop product candidates that can be produced cost-effectively at contract manufacturing facilities.
 For all our product candidates, we aim to identify and qualify manufacturers to provide the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and fill-and-finish services prior to submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA.
 We generally expect to rely on third parties for the manufacture of any companion diagnostics we or our collaborators may develop.
 Intellectual Property
 Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary or intellectual property protection for our product candidates and our core technologies, including novel biomarker and diagnostic discoveries and other know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary or intellectual property rights. We expect that we will seek to protect our proprietary and intellectual property position by, among other methods, licensing or filing our own U.S., international and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary and intellectual property position, which we generally seek to protect through contractual obligations with third parties.
 We currently, and expect that we will continue to, file or license patent applications directed to our key product candidates in an effort to establish intellectual property positions regarding composition-of-matter of these product candidates, as well as biomarkers that may be useful in selecting the right patient population for use of any of our product candidates, formulations, processes and methods of using these product candidates in the treatment of various cancers. We own or in-license a patent portfolio including issued U.S. patents and their respective counterparts in a number of foreign 
 
14


jurisdictions, pending U.S. patent applications, pending applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty and corresponding pending patent applications in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We have exclusively licensed from Janssen a portfolio of approximately 20 patent families. The in-licensed Janssen composition-of-matter and method-of-use patents expired in the United States and Europe in 2016. In July 2017, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, issued us a patent directed to the use of tipifarnib in certain patients with HRAS mutant HNSCC, and we are pursuing additional U.S. and foreign method of use patents for tipifarnib. We have also exclusively licensed from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center a patent family pertaining to a method of use of tipifarnib. In April 2017, the U.S. PTO issued us a patent covering the composition of matter of KO-947 and certain structurally related compounds, and methods of using the compounds for the treatment of cancers, and we are pursuing additional U.S. and foreign patents for KO-947. We have exclusively licensed from the University of Michigan or co-own multiple families of patent applications pertaining to our menin-MLL program. We currently, and expect that we will continue to, file for patents in the United States with counterparts in major market countries in Europe and other key markets in the rest of the world.
 In addition to the patent applications that we have filed to date, we plan to continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio by filing patent applications directed to dosage forms, methods of treatment and additional inhibitor compounds of oncology molecular targets and their derivatives. Specifically, we anticipate that we will seek patent protection in the United States and internationally for novel compositions of matter covering the compounds, the chemistries and processes for manufacturing these compounds, their intermediates and/or metabolites, the use of these compounds in a variety of therapies and the use of biomarkers for patient selection for these compounds. However, these or other patent applications that we may file or license from third parties may not result in the issuance of patents, and any issued patents may cover limited claims that reduce their value and/or may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.”
 In addition to patents, we also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, scientific advisors, employees and consultants, and invention assignment agreements with our employees and selected consultants, scientific advisors and collaborators. The confidentiality agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of agreements or clauses requiring invention assignment, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third-party.
 Orange Book Listing
 In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA certain patents whose claims cover the applicant’s product. Upon approval, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Any applicant who files an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, seeking approval of a generic equivalent version of a drug listed in the Orange Book or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA referencing a drug listed in the Orange Book must certify to the FDA that (1) no patent information on the drug product that is the subject of the application has been submitted to the FDA; (2) such patent has expired; (3) the date on which such patent expires; or (4) such patent is invalid or will not be infringed upon by the manufacture, use or sale of the drug product for which the application is submitted. This last certification is known as a paragraph IV certification. A notice of the paragraph IV certification must be provided to each owner of the patent that is the subject of the certification and to the holder of the approved NDA to which the ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) application refers. The applicant may also elect to submit a “section viii” statement certifying that its proposed label does not contain (or carves out) any language regarding the patented method-of-use rather than certify to a listed method-of-use patent.
 If the NDA holder for the reference drug and/or patent owners assert a patent challenge directed to one of the Orange Book listed patents within 45 days of the receipt of the paragraph IV certification notice, the FDA is prohibited from approving the application until the earlier of 30 months from the receipt of the paragraph IV certification, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. The ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the reference drug has expired as described in further detail below.
 
15


Non-Patent Exclusivity
 In addition to patent exclusivity, the holder of an NDA for a listed drug may be entitled to a period of non-patent exclusivity, during which the FDA cannot approve an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) application that relies on the listed drug. For example, a pharmaceutical manufacturer may obtain five years of non-patent exclusivity upon FDA approval of an NCE, which is a drug that contains an active moiety that has not been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. An “active moiety” is defined as the molecule or ion responsible for the drug substance’s physiological or pharmacologic action. During the five-year exclusivity period, the FDA cannot accept for filing any ANDA seeking approval of a generic version of that drug or any Section 505(b)(2) NDA for the same active moiety and that relies on the FDA’s findings regarding that drug, except that the FDA may accept an application for filing after four years if the follow-on applicant makes a paragraph IV certification. Five-year NCE exclusivity does not block the submission, review or approval of a 505(b)(1) NDA.
 Patent Term Extension
 After NDA approval, owners of relevant drug patents may apply for up to a five-year patent extension. The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug’s testing phase—the time between IND application and NDA submission—plus all of the review phase—the time between NDA submission and approval up to a maximum of five years. The time can be shortened if the FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence. The total patent term, including the extension may not exceed 14 years from the date of NDA approval.
 For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension. An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times. For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year. The director of the U.S. PTO must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely. Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug for which an NDA has not been submitted.
 Government Regulation
 FDA Approval Process
 In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecution.
 Pharmaceutical product development for a new product or certain changes to an approved product in the United States typically involves preclinical laboratory and animal tests, the submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before clinical testing may commence, and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug for each indication for which FDA approval is sought.
 Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including good laboratory practices. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls, and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long-term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted.
 A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has not placed the IND on hold within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin.
 Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with federal regulations; (ii) in compliance with good clinical practice, or GCP, an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators and monitors; and (iii) under protocols detailing the objectives of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND.
 
16


The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The study protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be submitted to an institutional review board, or IRB, for approval. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB’s requirements, or may impose other conditions.
 Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human patients, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses and, if possible, early evidence of effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to determine the effectiveness of the drug for a specific indication, dosage tolerance and optimum dosage and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 clinical trials are undertaken to obtain the additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to permit the FDA to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. In most cases, the FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the drug. A single Phase 3 clinical trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the study is a large multicenter clinical trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second clinical trial would be practically or ethically impossible.
 After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product’s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial, and the application user fees are typically increased annually.
 The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency’s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs to encourage timeliness. Most applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within 12 months from submission; most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed within eight months from submission. Priority review can be applied to drugs that the FDA determines offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission.
 The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products, or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an outside advisory committee—typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts—for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations.
 Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP—a quality system regulating manufacturing—is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied.
 After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing, or information, for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included.
 
17


An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU can include, but is not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring and the use of patient registries. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug’s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing.
 Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs.
 Fast Track Designation and Accelerated Approval
 The FDA is required to facilitate the development, and expedite the review, of drugs that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition for which there is no effective treatment and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the Fast Track program, the sponsor of a new product candidate may request that the FDA designate the product candidate for a specific indication as a Fast Track drug concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the product candidate. The FDA must determine if the product candidate qualifies for Fast Track Designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor’s request.
 Under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments.
 In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-approval compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4, or post-approval clinical trials, to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-approval studies, will allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for product candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to priority review by the FDA.
 If a submission is granted Fast Track Designation, the sponsor may engage in more frequent interactions with the FDA, and the FDA may review sections of the NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides, and the FDA approves, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. However, the FDA’s time period goal for reviewing an application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. Additionally, Fast Track Designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process.
 Breakthrough Therapy Designation
 The FDA is also required to expedite the development and review of the application for approval of drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Under the Breakthrough Therapy program, the sponsor of a new product candidate may request that the FDA designate the product candidate for a specific indication as a breakthrough therapy concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the product candidate. The FDA must determine if the product candidate qualifies for Breakthrough Therapy designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor’s request.
 
18


Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity
 The Orphan Drug Act provides incentives for the development of products intended to treat rare diseases or conditions. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug available in the United States for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, the FDA will grant orphan designation for that product for the orphan disease indication, assuming the same drug has not already been approved for the indication for which the sponsor is seeking orphan designation. If the same drug has already been approved for the indication for which the sponsor is seeking orphan designation, the sponsor must present a plausible hypothesis of clinical superiority to obtain orphan designation. Orphan designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan designation, the FDA discloses the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use.
 Orphan designation may provide manufacturers with benefits such as research grants, tax credits, Prescription Drug User Fee Act application fee waivers, and eligibility for orphan drug exclusivity. If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval of the active moiety for that disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which for seven years prohibits the FDA from approving another product with the same active ingredient for the same indication, except in limited circumstances. Orphan drug exclusivity will not bar approval of another product under certain circumstances, including if a subsequent product with the same active ingredient for the same indication is shown to be clinically superior to the approved product on the basis of greater efficacy or safety or is shown to provide a major contribution to patient care or if the company with orphan drug exclusivity is not able to meet market demand. Further, the FDA may approve more than one product for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the products contain different active ingredients. Moreover, competitors may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan drug has exclusivity or obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication for which the orphan drug has exclusivity.
 In the European Union, orphan designation also entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and a grant of ten years of market exclusivity following drug or biological product approval. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity.
 Orphan designation must be requested prior to submission of an application for marketing approval. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.
 Post-Approval Requirements
 Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, the FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling.
 Adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports are required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post-approval testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or the FDA may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality control, drug manufacture, packaging and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the Agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered.
 
19


Pediatric Information
 Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, NDAs or supplements to NDAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may grant full or partial waivers, or deferrals, for submission of data. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted.
 The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, or BPCA, provides NDA holders a six-month extension of any exclusivity—patent or non-patent—for a drug if certain conditions are met. Conditions for exclusivity include the FDA’s determination that information relating to the use of a new drug in the pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population, the FDA making a written request for pediatric studies and the applicant agreeing to perform, and reporting on, the requested studies within the statutory timeframe. Applications under the BPCA are treated as priority applications, with all of the benefits that designation confers.
 FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics
 Our drug products may rely upon in vitro companion diagnostics for use in selecting the patients that we believe will respond to our cancer therapeutics. If safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, or IVD, the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. This policy is described in an August 2014 FDA guidance document.
 The FDA has required in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to cancer treatment to obtain a premarket approval, or PMA, for that diagnostic simultaneously with approval of the drug. We believe that the FDA will require PMA approval of one or more in vitro companion diagnostics to identify patient populations suitable for our cancer therapies. The review of these in vitro companion diagnostics in conjunction with the review of our cancer treatments involves coordination of review by the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and by the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health.
 The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and nonclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years or longer. It involves a rigorous premarket review during which the applicant must prepare and provide the FDA with reasonable assurance of the device’s safety and effectiveness and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. PMA applications are subject to an application fee. In addition, PMAs for certain devices must generally include the results from extensive preclinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the device for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. In particular, for a diagnostic, the applicant must demonstrate that the diagnostic produces reproducible results when the same sample is tested multiple times by multiple users at multiple laboratories. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer’s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which imposes elaborate testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements.
 PMA approval is not guaranteed, and the FDA may ultimately respond to a PMA submission with a not approvable determination based on deficiencies in the application and require additional clinical trial or other data that may be expensive and time-consuming to generate and that can substantially delay approval. If the FDA’s evaluation of the PMA application is favorable, the FDA typically issues an approvable letter requiring the applicant’s agreement to specific conditions, such as changes in labeling, or specific additional information, such as submission of final labeling, in order to secure final approval of the PMA. If the FDA concludes that the applicable criteria have been met, the FDA will issue a PMA for the approved indications, which can be more limited than those originally sought by the applicant. The PMA can include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution.
 After a device is placed on the market, it remains subject to significant regulatory requirements. Medical devices may be marketed only for the uses and indications for which they are cleared or approved. Device manufacturers must also establish registration and device listings with the FDA. A medical device manufacturer’s manufacturing processes and those of its suppliers are required to comply with the applicable portions of the QSR, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of medical devices. Domestic facility records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA. The FDA also may inspect foreign facilities that export products to the United States.
 
20


Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of current or future products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production, denial of submissions for new products or withdrawal of PMA approvals.
 Clinical Trials and IDEs
 A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application. In some cases, one or more smaller IDE studies may precede a pivotal clinical trial intended to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the investigational device.
 All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with the FDA’s requirements. If an investigational device could pose a significant risk to patients pursuant to FDA regulations, the FDA must approve an IDE application prior to initiation of investigational use. IVD trials usually do not require an IDE, as the FDA does not judge them to be a significant risk because the results do not affect the patients in the study. However, for a clinical trial where the IVD result directs the therapeutic care of patients with cancer, we believe that the FDA may consider the investigation to present significant risk and require an IDE application.
 An IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as laboratory test results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. The FDA typically grants IDE approval for a specified number of patients. A non-significant risk device does not require FDA approval of an IDE. Both significant risk and non-significant risk investigational devices require approval from IRBs at the study centers where the device will be used.
 During the clinical trial, the sponsor must comply with the FDA’s IDE requirements for investigator selection, clinical trial monitoring, reporting and record keeping. The investigators must obtain patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices and comply with all reporting and record keeping requirements. Prior to granting PMA approval, the FDA typically inspects the records relating to the conduct of the study and the clinical data supporting the PMA application for compliance with applicable requirements.
 Although the QSR does not fully apply to investigational devices, the QSR requirement for controls on design and development does apply. The sponsor also must manufacture the investigational device in conformity with the quality controls described in the IDE application and any conditions of IDE approval that the FDA may impose with respect to manufacturing.
 Foreign Regulation
 In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our product candidates to the extent we choose to sell any products outside of the United States. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. As in the United States, post-approval regulatory requirements, such as those regarding product manufacture, marketing, or distribution would apply to any product that is approved outside the United States.
 Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, including any manufacturing changes, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, import and export of pharmaceutical products, such as those we are developing.
 There are also foreign regulations governing the privacy and security of health information and the use of personal information to sell or market products, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which will come into effect on May 25, 2018, and which imposes privacy and security obligations on any entity that collects and/or processes health data from individuals located in the European Union and/or sells or markets products in the European Union. Under the GDPR, fines of up to 20 million euros or up to 4% of the annual global turnover of the infringer, whichever is greater, could be imposed for significant non-compliance.
 
21


Additional Regulations and Environmental Matters
 In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, we are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. These laws, which generally will not be applicable to us or our product candidates unless and until we obtain FDA marketing approval for any of our product candidates, include transparency laws, anti-kickback statutes, false claims statutes and regulation regarding providing drug samples, among others.
 The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for either the referral of an individual or the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs.
 Federal false claims laws, including the False Claims Act, prohibit, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws.
 The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters.
 HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act, and their implementing regulations, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of protected health information used and disclosed by covered entities and their business associates that create, receive, maintain, or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. Many states and foreign jurisdictions also have laws and regulations that govern the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, and such laws often vary from one another and from HIPAA.
 The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. It also requires certain manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.
 The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and may require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. Our activities may also subject to be certain state laws regarding the privacy and security of health information that may not be preempted by HIPAA, as well as additional tracking and reporting obligations regarding payments to healthcare providers and marketing expenditures.
 Because of the breadth of these laws, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant administrative, criminal and civil penalties, damages, fines, individual imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private "qui tam" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations
 
22


In addition to regulatory schemes that apply, or may in the future apply, to our business, we are or may become subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, laboratory procedures and any use and disposal by us of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development activities. We do not presently expect such environmental, health and safety laws or regulations to materially impact our present or planned future activities.
 Coverage and Reimbursement
 Sales of any of our product candidates that may be approved will depend, in part, on the extent to which the cost of the product will be covered by third-party payors. Third-party payors may limit coverage to an approved list of products, or formulary, which might not include all drug products approved by the FDA for an indication. A payor’s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor’s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the drug product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.
 Any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective by third-party payors, and we may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in the future to demonstrate the medical necessity and/or cost effectiveness of any such product. Nonetheless, our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown increased interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit government-paid health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Continued interest in and adoption of such controls and measures, and tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the product candidates we are developing.
 Health Reform
 The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a specific focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. By way of example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, was signed into law, which intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA expanded and increased industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and made changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Some of the provisions of the ACA have yet to be implemented, and there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders and other directives designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the ACA have been signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the “individual mandate”. Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that
 delayed the implementation of certain ACA-mandated fees, including the so-called “Cadillac” tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, or the BBA, among other things, amends the ACA, effective January 1, 2019, to increase from 50% to 70% the point-of-sale discount that is owed by pharmaceutical manufacturers who participate in Medicare Part D and to close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the “donut hole”. Congress also could consider additional legislation to repeal and/or replace elements of the ACA. We continue to evaluate the effect that the ACA and its possible repeal and replacement has on our business.
 
23


In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year effective April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, including the BBA, will stay in effect through 2027 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on customers for our drugs, if approved, and, accordingly, our financial operations. Recently there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner by which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. For example, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the cost of drugs under Medicare, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. At the federal level, the Trump administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2019 contains further drug price control measures that could be enacted during the 2019 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit Medicare Part D plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under Medicare Part B, to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under Medicaid, and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. While any proposed measures will require authorization through additional legislation to become effective, Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. At the state level, legislatures are increasingly passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.
 In the coming years, additional legislative and regulatory changes could be made to governmental health programs that could significantly impact pharmaceutical companies and the success of our product candidates.
 Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we had 31 full-time employees and one part-time employee, including ten employees with M.D. or Ph.D. degrees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.
Corporate Information
 Our corporate headquarters are located at 3033 Science Park Road, Suite 220, San Diego, California 92121, and our telephone number is (858) 500-8800. We also occupy offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We maintain a website at www.kuraoncology.com. Our website and the information contained on, or that can be accessed through, the website will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in, and are not considered part of, this Annual Report. Our Annual Reports on Form 10‑K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8‑K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on the Investors and Media portion of our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.
 All brand names or trademarks appearing in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Use or display by us of other parties’ trademarks, trade dress, or products in this Annual Report is not intended to, and does not, imply a relationship with, or endorsements or sponsorship of, us by the trademark or trade dress owners. 
 We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our November 2015 public offering, (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (3) the day we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeded $700.0 million as measured as of the prior June 30th, and (4) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. References herein to “emerging growth company” shall have the meaning associated with it in the JOBS Act.
 
24


 