Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
---------+----------

Overview
 We are a biopharmaceutical company with research and development programs broadly falling into two categories: (i) new chemical entities derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program, in which we attempt to discover and develop molecules which have not previously been approved and marketed as therapeutics, and (ii) Drug Delivery Programs, in which we apply our formulation expertise and technologies largely to active pharmaceutical ingredients whose safety and efficacy have previously been established but which we aim to improve in some manner through a new formulation. We also manufacture and sell osmotic pumps used in laboratory research and design, develop and manufacture a wide range of standard and custom biodegradable polymers and excipients for pharmaceutical and medical device clients for use as raw materials in their products.
 Our product pipeline currently consists of multiple investigational drug candidates in clinical development.  DUR‑928, a new chemical entity in Phase 2 development, is the lead candidate in DURECT’s Epigenetic Regulator Program.  An endogenous, orally bioavailable small molecule, DUR-928 has been shown in preclinical studies to play an important regulatory role in lipid homeostasis, inflammation, and cell survival.  Human applications may include acute organ injury, chronic metabolic diseases such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and other liver diseases with both broad and orphan populations, and inflammatory skin conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis.  DURECT’s advanced oral and injectable delivery technologies are designed to enable new indications and enhanced attributes for small-molecule and biologic drugs. One late stage development program is REMOXY® ER (oxycodone), an investigational extended release pain relief drug based on DURECT’s ORADUR® technology, for which DURECT’s licensee Pain Therapeutics has resubmitted the NDA and for which the FDA has set a PDUFA target action date of August 7, 2018.  Another late-stage development program in this category is POSIMIR® (SABER®-Bupivacaine), an investigational analgesic product intended to deliver bupivacaine to provide up to 3 days of pain relief after surgery.    In addition, for the assignment of certain patent rights, DURECT may receive a milestone payment upon NDA approval and single digit sales-based earn-out payments from U.S. net sales of Indivior’s RBP-7000 investigational drug for schizophrenia, for which Indivior has submitted an NDA and for which the FDA has set a PDUFA target action date of July 28, 2018.
 A central aspect of our business strategy involves advancing multiple product candidates at one time, which is enabled by leveraging our resources with those of corporate collaborators. Thus, certain of our programs are currently licensed to corporate collaborators on terms which typically call for our collaborator to fund all or a substantial portion of future development costs and then pay us milestone payments based on specific development or commercial achievements plus a royalty on product sales. At the same time, we have retained the rights to other programs, which are the basis of potential future collaborations and which over time may provide a pathway for us to develop our own commercial, sales and marketing organization.
 Epigenetic Regulator Program and New Chemical Entities
 DURECT’s Epigenetic Regulator Program involves a multi-year collaborative effort with the Department of Internal Medicine at Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), the VCU Medical Center and the McGuire VA Medical Center. The discoveries from this program are a result of more than 20 years of lipid research by Shunlin Ren, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Internal Medicine at the VCU Medical Center and a recipient of multiple grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for metabolic disease research. Epigenetic regulation does not change DNA sequences, but regulates the pattern of DNA expression and subsequent cellular functions. DUR-928 is our program’s lead product candidate. We hold the exclusive worldwide right to develop and commercialize DUR-928 and related molecules discovered in the program.
NOTE: POSIMIR®, SABER®, CLOUD®, ORADUR®, ALZET® and LACTEL® are trademarks of DURECT Corporation. Other trademarks referred to belong to their respective owners.
 
1

Our major product research and development efforts for new chemical entities derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program are set forth in the following table:
 
 
Product Candidate | Disease/Indication | Collaborator | Stage 
------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------
• DUR-928, oral | • Metabolic disorders / chronic liver diseases | • DURECT holds worldwide development and commercialization rights under a license with Virginia Commonwealth University | • Phase 2 
• DUR-928, injectable | • Acute organ injuries | • DURECT holds worldwide development and commercialization rights under a license with Virginia Commonwealth University | • Phase 2 
• DUR-928, topical | • Inflammatory skin conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis | • DURECT holds worldwide development and commercialization rights under a license with Virginia Commonwealth University | • Phase 1 

 
During the course of this program, a number of compounds have been identified that may have therapeutic utility for various uncommon (orphan and rare) and common diseases, disorders or syndromes. The lead compound from this program (DUR-928) is an endogenous, orally available small molecule that modulates the activity of various nuclear receptors that play important regulatory roles in lipid homeostasis, inflammation and cell survival.
 The biological activity of DUR-928 has been demonstrated in over 10 different animal disease models involving three animal species. Several of these disease models represent chronic metabolic disorders of hepatic lipid accumulation and dysfunction (e.g., nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) associated with diabetes) and several represent acute organ injuries (endotoxin shock, ischemic-reperfusion kidney injury, acute liver failure and stroke).
 We are pursuing the development of DUR-928 through three programs for: (i) chronic metabolic disorders or liver diseases using oral administration, (ii) acute organ injury by injection or infusion, and (iii) local skin inflammatory disorders using topical application. We are also evaluating additional indications beyond these programs.
 In pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies conducted in mice, hamsters, rats, rabbits, dogs and monkeys, DUR-928 has been found to be orally available, locally tolerable and safe at all doses and in all routes tested to date. These non-clinical results supported the initiation of DUR-928 into human safety/pharmacokinetics (PK)/proof-of-concept trials. 
 Chronic Metabolic Disease Program with Orally Administered DUR-928
 Market Opportunity.    Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects approximately 30% of adults and 10% of children (about 81 million individuals) in the United States. There are many mechanisms, but only one phenotype of steatohepatitis.  Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a more severe and progressive form of NAFLD, is one of the most common chronic liver diseases worldwide, with an estimated prevalence of more than 
 2

10% of adults in the United States, Europe, Japan and other developed countries. No drug is currently approved for NAFLD or NASH.  Moreover, alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) and its more advanced stage, alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH), develops in approximately 90% of individuals who drink more than 60 grams/day of alcohol, but may occur in individuals who drink less, and is a major contributor to the global burden of liver cirrhosis. Alcoholic hepatitis (AH), an acute, inflammatory form of AFLD, occurs in approximately 20% of patients with alcoholism and there are no effective therapeutics available to treat this condition. There is a growing appreciation for the pathological overlap between NASH and ASH.  In addition to these liver diseases, there are a number of orphan liver diseases for which we may seek to develop DUR-928, such as primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC).
 Clinical Program.    The initial Phase 1 trial of DUR-928 was a single-site, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, single-ascending-dose study that evaluated the safety, tolerability and PK of orally administered DUR-928. The 30-subject study evaluated DUR-928 in five cohorts of healthy volunteers receiving DUR-928 (n=20 on drug, 10 on placebo) at escalating doses that resulted in peak plasma concentrations greater than 100-fold higher than endogenous levels. DUR-928 was well-tolerated at all dose levels, with no serious treatment-related adverse events reported. Dose related increases in plasma concentrations were observed with peak plasma concentration at approximately 2-6 hours after dosing. We subsequently conducted a Phase 1 multiple-ascending-dose, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, oral administration trial in 20 healthy subjects (n=16 on drug, 4 on placebo).  Following multiple dosing, DUR-928 was well-tolerated at all doses, with no serious drug-related adverse events reported and no accumulation in plasma concentrations observed with repeat dosing.  We also conducted a food effect study with 8 healthy volunteers and observed no food effect on absorption. 
 
Our first patient trial utilizing orally administered DUR-928 was an open-label, single-ascending-dose safety and PK Phase 1b trial in liver function impaired (NASH) patients and matched control subjects (MCS) (matched by age, body mass index and gender with normal liver function).  This study was conducted in Australia in two successive dose cohorts (first a low dose of 50 mg and then a high dose of 200 mg) and NASH patients were confirmed to be either cirrhotic or non-cirrhotic.  Both cohorts consisted of 10 NASH patients and 6 MCS. Data from this study was presented at the International Liver Congress™ 2017 organized by the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) in Amsterdam on April 22, 2017. 
 
All patients and MCS tolerated DUR-928 well.  One patient (with a prior history of arrhythmia and an ongoing viral infection) in the high dose cohort experienced a serious adverse event (shortness of breath), which occurred without unusually abnormal biochemical changes and resolved without intervention but was considered possibly treatment related by the physician due to its temporal association with dosing.  In both the low and high dose cohorts, the PK parameters were comparable between the NASH patients and the MCS.  In addition, the systemic exposure following the low and high doses of DUR-928 was dose dependent.
 
While this study was not designed to assess efficacy, we observed a dose dependent reduction of certain biomarkers after a single oral dose of DUR-928.   Exploratory biomarker analysis indicated that a single oral dose of DUR-928 resulted in statistically significant reductions from baseline in the levels of both full-length and cleaved cytokeratin-18 (CK-18), bilirubin, hsCRP and IL-18 in the NASH patients.  The mean decrease of full-length CK-18 (a generalized cell death marker) at the measured time point of greatest effect (12 hours after dosing) was 33% in the low dose cohort and 41% in the high dose cohort.  The mean decrease of cleaved CK-18 (a cell apoptosis marker) at the measured time point of greatest effect (12 hours after dosing) was 37% in the low dose cohort and 47% in the high dose cohort.  The mean reduction in total bilirubin (a liver function impairment marker) at the measured time point of greatest effect (12 hours after dosing) was 27% in the low dose cohort and 31% in the high dose cohort.  The mean decrease of high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (hsCRP), a marker of inflammation, at the measured time point of greatest effect (24 hours after dosing) was 8% on average in the low dose cohort and 13% in the high dose cohort.   The mean decrease of IL-18, an inflammatory mediator implicated in both liver and kidney diseases, at the measured time point of greatest effect (8 hours after dosing) was 4% in the low dose cohort and 8% in the high dose cohort.
 
3

Collectively, the reduction of these biomarkers plus results from our animal and cell culture studies suggest potential therapeutic activity of DUR-928 for patients with liver diseases.  However, additional studies are required to evaluate the safety and efficacy of DUR-928, and there is no assurance that these biomarker effects will be associated with clinically relevant benefits, or that DUR-928 will demonstrate safety or efficacy in treating liver diseases in larger controlled trials.  
 
We are conducting a Phase 2a trial in PSC with orally administered DUR-928.  The Phase 2a trial is a randomized, open label study with two cohorts (a low dose cohort of 10 mg and a high dose cohort of 50 mg), in which patients (n = 20 per cohort) will receive oral dosing of DUR-928 for 4-weeks with follow-up for an additional four-weeks. The objectives of this study include safety, PK and pharmacodynamic (PD) markers, including the percent change from baseline of serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and other biomarkers.   As an open label study, we expect to generate data during the course of 2018.  PSC is a chronic liver disease characterized by a progression of cholestasis (decrease in bile flow) with inflammation and fibrosis of bile ducts.  Over time, PSC leads to liver failure, infections and tumors of the bile duct or liver, and ultimately may require a liver transplant.  There is no approved treatment for PSC at this time.  We have received orphan drug designation for DUR-928 to treat patients with PSC.  We believe that data generated from this trial will be relevant to other chronic inflammatory, fibrotic and cholestatic liver conditions.
 Acute Organ Injury Program with Injectable DUR-928
 Market Opportunity.    Acute organ injury is another area of major unmet medical need for which effective pharmaceutical treatment is often lacking. Acute kidney injury (AKI) alone, for example, affects approximately 2.8 million patients per year in the United States and is associated with increased mortality, prolonged hospital stays, and progression to chronic kidney disease. In addition, AKI is a major cause of mortality in acute liver injury. Alcoholic hepatitis is a syndrome characterized by progressive inflammatory liver injury associated with long-term heavy intake of alcohol, and involves a spectrum that ranges from mild injury to severe, life threatening injury.  The prevalence of alcoholic hepatitis has not been accurately determined, but it is believed to occur in 10-35% of heavy drinkers.  There were over 320,000 hospitalizations related to alcoholic hepatitis in 2010, and the hospitalization costs amounted to nearly $50,000 per patient.  There are various forms of acute organ injury affecting the liver, the kidney or multiple organs for which we may seek to develop DUR-928.
 Clinical Program.    The initial Phase 1 trial with injectable administration was a single-site, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, single-ascending-dose study that evaluated the safety, tolerability and PK of intramuscular (IM) injected DUR-928. The 24-subject study (16 healthy volunteers on the drug and 8 on placebo) of four escalating dose levels resulted in dose proportionality of systemic exposure. DUR-928 was well-tolerated at all dose levels, with no serious treatment-related adverse events reported. We also conducted a multiple-dose study involving 10 healthy volunteers, in which participants received IM-injected DUR-928 for 5 consecutive days (8 subjects on the drug, 2 on placebo) with the next to highest dose in the single dose study. No serious treatment related adverse events were reported, no subjects withdrew from the study, no accumulation in plasma concentrations were observed with repeat dosing, and the pain scores and injection site reactions were minimal. We also conducted a single-ascending-dose intravenous infusion (IV) study with 16 healthy volunteers and observed no treatment related serious adverse events. The systemic exposure following IV infusion was dose proportional.
 
Our second Phase 1b study with injected DUR-928, also conducted in Australia, was an open-label, single-ascending-dose study in patients with impaired kidney function (stage 3 and 4 chronic kidney disease (CKD)) and matched control subjects (matched by age, body mass and gender with normal kidney function).  This study was conducted in two successive cohorts (first a low dose of 30 mg and then a high dose of 120 mg) evaluating safety and PK of single-dose intramuscular injected DUR-928. The low dose cohort consisted of 6 patients with chronic kidney disease and 3 matched control subjects; the high dose cohort consisted of 5 patients with chronic kidney disease and 3 matched control subjects.  In this trial, DUR-928 was well tolerated among all subjects and the PK parameters between the kidney function impaired patients and the matched control subjects were comparable. Although the number of subjects involved was small, we did observe decreases in bilirubin and CK-18 when those levels were meaningfully elevated pre-treatment.
 
4

We have been working with our clinical advisors to design several Phase 2a studies for various acute organ injuries.   We submitted an initial IND in late December 2016 for a proposed Phase 2a liver study.  The FDA requested certain drug-drug interaction data and made suggestions for the proposed protocol.  In response, we completed Phase 1 drug-drug interaction studies, which demonstrated that neither orally administered nor intravenously injected DUR-928 had an effect on the safety and PK of midazolam, a drug for detecting potential drug-drug interactions via the enzyme CYP3A4.  This enzyme is commonly associated with clinically relevant drug-drug interactions.  
 
We are conducting a Phase 2a trial in alcoholic hepatitis (AH) with DUR-928.  The Phase 2a trial is an open label, dose escalation study conducted in two parts.  Part A will include patients with moderate AH (as determined by MELD scores) and Part B will include patients with severe AH.  The study will be conducted using three dose levels (30 mg, 90 mg and 150 mg) in Part A, with sequential dose escalation following review of safety and PK results of the prior dose level.  Patients will receive DUR-928 by intravenous infusion, and the dose may be adjusted in Part B based on the findings from Part A.  Patients will be enrolled at multiple clinical sites in the United States and the target number of participants to complete the study is 24-36.  The objectives of this study include safety, PK and PD signals, as determined by improvement in liver biochemistry, MELD and Lille scores and other biomarkers.   As an open label study, we expect to generate data during the course of 2018.  
 Skin Inflammatory Disorder Program with Topical DUR-928
 Market opportunity.  Skin inflammatory disorders, such as psoriasis or atopic dermatitis, affect approximately 7.5 million and 32 million Americans, respectively.  Most currently available topical treatments, typically as first line therapy, either slow down excessive skin cell proliferation or reduce inflammation.  Steroids are the most commonly used topical anti-inflammatory agents because they reduce the swelling and redness of lesions.  
 
Clinical program.  We have conducted an exploratory proof-of-concept (POC) Phase 1b trial in psoriasis patients (9 evaluable patients) in Australia.  The decision to proceed with clinical testing was based on the anti-inflammatory activities of DUR-928, as well as the results of a psoriasis study with DUR-928 in mice. The double-blinded and placebo-controlled Phase 1b trial was conducted using a micro-plaque assay with intralesional injections of DUR-928.    We feel that the initial results were encouraging and warrant further investigation.  As a result, we have developed and selected lead topical formulations of DUR-928 and have recently completed good laboratory practice (GLP) skin irritation / sensitization studies in two species.  We have had pre-IND interactions with the FDA and are incorporating FDA’s comments in our upcoming IND while we conduct a mini-pig skin irritation study to be included in our IND for a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study with topically applied DUR-928. We expect to initiate this Phase 2 study in the third quarter of 2018.
 Drug Delivery Programs and Pharmaceutical Systems
 We are developing pharmaceutical systems that will deliver the right drug to the right place, in the right amount and at the right time to treat chronic and episodic diseases and conditions. Our pharmaceutical systems enable optimized therapy for a given disease or patient population by controlling the rate and duration of drug administration. In addition, if advantageous for the therapy, our pharmaceutical systems can target the delivery of the drug to its intended site of action.
 Our pharmaceutical systems are suitable for providing long-term drug therapy because they store highly concentrated, stabilized drugs in a small volume and can protect the drug from degradation by the body. This, in combination with our ability to continuously deliver precise and accurate doses of a drug, allows us to extend the therapeutic value of a wide variety of drugs, including those which would otherwise be ineffective, too unstable, too potent or cause adverse side effects. In some cases, delivering the drug directly to the intended site of action can improve efficacy while minimizing unwanted side effects elsewhere in the body, which often limit the long-term use of many drugs. Our pharmaceutical systems can thus provide better therapy for chronic diseases or conditions, or for certain acute conditions where longer drug dosing is required or advantageous, by replacing multiple injection therapy or oral dosing, improving drug efficacy, reducing side effects and ensuring dosing compliance. Our pharmaceutical systems can improve patients’ quality of life by eliminating more repetitive treatments, reducing dependence on caregivers and allowing patients to lead more independent lives.
 5

We currently have several major active drug delivery technology platforms:
 The SABER and CLOUD Bioerodible Injectable Depot Systems
 Our bioerodible injectable depot systems include our SABER and CLOUD platform technologies. SABER uses a high viscosity base component, such as sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB), to provide controlled release of a drug. When the high viscosity SAIB is formulated with drug, biocompatible excipients and other additives, the resulting formulation is easily injectable with standard syringes and needles. After injection of a SABER formulation, the excipients diffuse away, leaving a viscous depot which provides controlled sustained release of drug. CLOUD is a class of bioerodible injectable depot technology which generally does not contain SAIB but includes various other release rate modifying excipients and/or bioerodible polymers to achieve the delivery of drugs for periods of days to months from a single injection. We are researching and developing a variety of controlled-release products based on the SABER and CLOUD technologies. Based on research and development work to date, our bioerodible injectable depot technologies have shown the following advantages:

• | Peptide/Protein/Small Molecule Delivery—The chemical nature of our bioerodible injectable depot systems tend to repel water and body enzymes from its interior and thereby stabilizes proteins and peptides. For this reason, we believe that bioerodible injectable depot systems are well suited as a platform for biotechnology therapeutics based on proteins and peptides.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Controlled Onset and Release—Typically, controlled release injections are associated with an initial higher release of drug immediately after injection (also called “burst”). Animal and human studies have shown that our bioerodible injectable depots can be associated with less post-injection burst than is typically associated with other commercially available injectable controlled release technologies, while still achieving controlled rapid onset of drug concentration.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | High Drug Loading—Drug loading in our bioerodible injectable depot formulations can be as high as 30%, considerably greater than is typical with other commercially available injectable controlled release technologies. As a result, smaller injection volumes are possible with this technology.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Ease of Administration—Prior to injection, our bioerodible injectable depot formulations are fairly liquid and therefore can be injected through small needles. Additionally, because of the higher drug concentration of our bioerodible injectable depot formulations, less volume is required to be injected. Small injection volumes and more liquid solutions are expected to result in easier, less painful administration.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Patent Protection—Our bioerodible injectable depot technology is covered by United States and foreign patents. See “Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights” below.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Ease of Manufacture—Compared to microspheres and other polymer-based controlled release injectable systems, our bioerodible injectable depot formulations are readily manufacturable at low cost.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The SABER technology is the basis of POSIMIR, for which our NDA received a Complete Response Letter in February 2014 and for which we conducted a Phase 3 trial designed to generate additional clinical data with which to address the issues raised in the Complete Response Letter. The SABER technology is also utilized in our ophthalmic program with Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen), as well as multiple feasibility programs. In our clinical studies thus far, our bioerodible injectable depot formulations have been observed to be safe and well-tolerated, and no significant side effects or adverse events have been reported.
 The SABER technology is also the basis for SucroMate™ Equine, an injectable animal health drug utilizing our SABER technology to deliver the peptide deslorelin. This is the first FDA approved SABER injectable product and it was launched in 2011 by our collaborator, CreoSalus, Inc.
 6

The ORADUR Sustained Release Gel Cap Technology
 We believe that our ORADUR sustained release technology can transform short-acting oral capsule dosage forms into sustained release oral products. Products based on our ORADUR technology can take the form of an easy to swallow gelatin capsule that uses a high-viscosity base component such as sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB) to provide controlled release of active ingredients for a period of 12 to 24 hours of drug delivery. Oral dosage forms based on the ORADUR gel-cap may also have the added benefit of being less prone to abuse (e.g., by crushing and then snorting, smoking, injecting or extracting by mixing with alcohol or water) than other controlled release dosage forms on the market today. These properties have the potential to make ORADUR-based products an attractive option for pharmaceutical companies that seek to develop abuse deterrent oral products.
 The ORADUR technology is the basis of REMOXY ER, a unique long-acting oral formulation of the opioid oxycodone designed to discourage common methods of opioid misuse and abuse, and for which Pain Therapeutics, Inc. (Pain Therapeutics) received a Complete Response Letter most recently in September 2016. The ORADUR technology has also been applied to develop abuse-deterrent formulations of other opioids, including hydromorphone, hydrocodone and oxymorphone, although these programs are not currently under active development. We also have an ORADUR-ADHD program for which we and Orient Pharma Co., Ltd. (Orient Pharma) have selected a lead formulation containing the active pharmaceutical ingredient methylphenidate. This formulation was selected based on its potential for rapid onset of action, long duration for once-a-day dosing and target pharmacokinetic profile as demonstrated in a Phase 1 trial. Orient Pharma achieved positive results from a Phase 3 trial in Taiwan in 2017 and is pursuing a new drug application with the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration. 
 Major Drug Delivery Programs
 POSIMIR (SABER-Bupivacaine)
 Market Opportunity.    According to data published by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, there are approximately 72 million ambulatory and inpatient surgical procedures performed annually in the U.S. Insufficient postoperative pain control remains a significant problem, with studies indicating that roughly 65% of patients experience moderate-to-extreme pain after surgery. The current standard of care for post-surgical pain includes oral opiate and non-opiate analgesics and muscle relaxants. While systemic opioids can effectively control post-surgical pain, they commonly cause side effects including drowsiness, constipation, nausea and vomiting, and cognitive impairment. Effective pain management can be compromised if patients fail to adhere to recommended dosing regimens because they are suffering from these side effects. Post-surgical pain also can be treated effectively with local anesthetics; however, their usefulness often is limited by their short duration of action.
 Development Strategy.    We are developing POSIMIR, an extended-release formulation of bupivacaine, using our SABER delivery system for the treatment of post-surgical pain. Bupivacaine is an off-patent pharmaceutical agent. The physician would administer POSIMIR at the time of surgery to the surgical site. This formulation is designed to provide extended analgesia from a single dose. We believe that by delivering effective amounts of a potent analgesic to the location from which the pain originates, improved pain control can be achieved with minimal exposure to the remainder of the body and reduced need for systemic analgesics, thus minimizing systemic side effects. POSIMIR is intended to provide local analgesia for up to 3 days, which we believe generally coincides with the time period of greatest need for post-surgical pain control in most patients.
 In May 2017, we signed a development and commercialization agreement with Sandoz AG (Sandoz), a division of Novartis, to develop and market POSIMIR in the United States.  
 Clinical Program.    Our POSIMIR clinical development program has been devised to establish the safety and efficacy of POSIMIR for the treatment of post-surgical pain for 3 days. Toward that end, 16 clinical studies have been completed, of which 14 clinical studies were with the final formulation of POSIMIR in either blinded, randomized controlled trials or open-label trials. The initial 15 trials were included in the Integrated Summary of Safety (ISS) which was included in the POSIMIR NDA. Seven randomized, controlled, parallel design clinical trials of POSIMIR using the instillation method of administration and dose proposed for marketing were included in the Integrated Summary of Efficacy (ISE) which was included in the NDA. Seven different surgical procedures have been investigated, including inguinal hernia repair, shoulder surgery (primarily subacromial decompression), 
 7

appendectomy, abdominal hysterectomy, open laparotomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and laparoscopic colectomy. The incision lengths treated ranged from a few centimeters for laparoscopic portals, to open laparotomy incisions of up to 35 cm. The seriousness of the surgery ranged from day surgery hernia repair in relatively healthy patients to major abdominal surgery for colon cancer in elderly patients with substantial co-morbidity who were often hospitalized for a week or more. The safety experience from this variety of procedures and patients was designed to allow a more confident extrapolation of the safety and efficacy data to a broad general surgical population.
 Safety
 As bupivacaine is a well-known drug with an extensive understanding of its risks and benefits, the safety database in the Integrated Summary of Safety (ISS) is not as large as required for a new chemical entity. In the POSIMIR NDA, a total of 1,075 patients were included in the ISS database, 951 of whom had been exposed to POSIMIR or SABER-Placebo in volumes ranging from 2.5 to 10 mL. A total of 683 patients had been exposed to POSIMIR with the dose of bupivacaine ranging from 330 to 990 mg. In addition, a total of 124 patients had been treated with bupivacaine HCl in control groups and 268 patients received SABER-Placebo in control groups.
 Overall, the POSIMIR patient groups showed a similar systemic safety profile as the patient groups treated with SABER-Placebo and bupivacaine HCl. Local site reactions were observed more frequently in the POSIMIR and SABER-Placebo groups than in the active comparator groups, most frequently in abdominal surgeries; most of these observations were discolorations (e.g., surgical bruising), the majority of which resolved without treatment during the observation period. There was little difference in the incidence of severe or serious adverse events between the POSIMIR, SABER-Placebo and bupivacaine HCl treatment groups. Most of the serious adverse events seen in these trials appear to be due to complications of surgery, anesthesia, analgesics, or co-morbidity and not POSIMIR-related. The clinical history for serious adverse events has been reviewed and no evidence of bupivacaine toxicity was apparent. The adverse event data was analyzed in a variety of ways to detect any evidence of bupivacaine central nervous system or cardiac toxicity or other unexpected effects. No patients treated with POSIMIR had an instance of a severe central nervous system or cardiac adverse event traditionally associated with bupivacaine toxicity.
 Efficacy
 In the NDA, we presented the results from two efficacy trials that we positioned as pivotal (inguinal hernia repair and shoulder surgery, primarily subacromial decompression) and an Integrated Summary of Efficacy (ISE) based on 7 randomized, controlled, parallel design surgical trials of POSIMIR using the administration technique and 5 mL (660 mg) dose proposed for marketing.
 Hernia pivotal efficacy trial
 The hernia pivotal efficacy clinical trial was designed to evaluate the tolerability, activity, dose response and pharmacokinetics of POSIMIR in patients undergoing open inguinal hernia repair. The trial was conducted in Australia and New Zealand as a multi-center, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study in 122 patients. Study patients were randomized into three treatment groups: patients that were treated with POSIMIR 2.5 mL (n=43), POSIMIR 5 mL (n=47) and placebo (n=32). The co-primary efficacy endpoints for the study were Mean Pain Intensity on Movement area under the curve (AUC), a measure of pain over a period of 1-72 hours post-surgery, and the proportion of patients requiring supplemental opioid analgesic medication during the study (defined as 0-15 days).
 In relation to the co-primary endpoint of pain reduction as measured by Mean Pain Intensity on Movement AUC 1-72 hours post-surgery, the patient group treated with POSIMIR 5 mL reported thirty-one percent (31%) less pain versus placebo, and the result was statistically significant (p=0.0031). Fifty-three percent (53%) of the study patients in the POSIMIR 5 mL group took supplemental opioid analgesic medications versus seventy-two percent (72%) of the placebo patients (p=0.0909). Although this positive trend for this co-primary endpoint in favor of the POSIMIR 5 mL group was not statistically significant, both secondary endpoints measuring opioid analgesic medication consumption were met at a statistically significant level. During the periods of 1-24 hours, 24-48 hours and 48-72 hours after surgery, placebo patients consumed approximately 3.5 (p=0.0009), 2.9 (p=0.0190) and 3.6 (p=0.0172) times more supplemental opioid analgesic medications (mean total daily consumption of opioid 
 8

analgesic medication in morphine equivalents), respectively, than the POSIMIR 5 mL treatment group. The median decrease in supplemental opioid analgesics taken over the first three days after surgery was 80% (p=0.0085) for the POSIMIR 5 mL group as compared to the placebo group.
 Shoulder pivotal efficacy trial
 The shoulder pivotal efficacy trial was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active- and placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-response trial conducted at 9 investigational centers in Europe. Nycomed, our collaborator at the time, was responsible for the conduct of the clinical trial. In this study, 107 patients were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups prior to undergoing elective arthroscopic shoulder surgery: POSIMIR 5 mL (n=53), SABER-Placebo (n=25) or bupivacaine HCl solution (n=29). All patients were given a background pain treatment consisting of a daily dose of two or four grams (depending on the patient’s weight) of paracetamol (acetaminophen). In addition, each patient was provided supplemental opioid rescue medication, if needed. With respect to efficacy, the primary endpoints of the study were to demonstrate: (1) an improvement in terms of pain intensity on movement area under the curve (AUC) during the period 1–72 hours post-surgery, and (2) a decrease in the total use of opioid rescue analgesia 0–72 hours post-surgery.
 Results from this study demonstrate that the POSIMIR group experienced a statistically significant reduction in pain intensity of approximately 20% (p=0.012) versus SABER-Placebo. Applying the appropriate statistical test given the data distribution, the POSIMIR group showed a statistically significant reduction of approximately 67% (p=0.013) in median opioid use in favor of POSIMIR. No statistical differences were found when POSIMIR was compared to bupivacaine HCl.
 Phase 3 trial in abdominal surgical procedures
 We also conducted a Phase 3 U.S. and international, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial evaluating the safety, efficacy, effectiveness, and pharmacokinetics of POSIMIR in 305 patients undergoing a variety of general abdominal surgical procedures. The trial included the following three cohorts:
 Cohort 1: An active comparator cohort in which patients were randomized to receive either POSIMIR 5 mL or commercially available Bupivacaine HCl solution after laparotomy.
 Cohort 2: An active comparator cohort in which patients were randomized to receive either POSIMIR 5 mL or commercially available Bupivacaine HCl solution after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
 Cohort 3: A double blind, placebo controlled cohort in which patients were randomized to receive either POSIMIR 5 mL or SABER-Placebo after laparoscopically-assisted colectomy.
 Efficacy evaluation in the Phase 3 trial encompassed a number of parameters. The two co-primary efficacy endpoints for Cohort 3 were mean pain intensity on movement (normalized) Area Under the Curve (AUC) during the period 0-72 hours post-dose and mean total morphine equivalent opioid dose for supplemental analgesia during the period 0-72 hours post-dose. The purpose of Cohorts 1 and 2 was to give us additional experience with the use of POSIMIR in a broader group of surgeries and patients.
 Cohort 3. With respect to the co-primary efficacy endpoint of pain reduction as measured by mean pain intensity on movement (normalized) Area Under the Curve (AUC) during the period 0-72 hours post-dose, the patient group treated with POSIMIR reported a mean pain reduction in pain scores of approximately 7%, although this was not statistically significant (p=0.1466). The statistical analysis plan included pain on movement as recorded at scheduled times through an electronic diary plus pain scores reported whenever supplemental opioids were administered with such scores attributed as if they were pain on movement. In the prespecified sensitivity analysis (which includes only scheduled pain assessment on movement scores as collected on the electronic diary), the patient group treated with POSIMIR reported approximately 10% less pain versus placebo (p=0.0410). In relation to the co-primary efficacy endpoint of median total morphine-equivalent opioid dose for supplemental analgesia during the period 0-72 hours post-dose, the patient group treated with POSIMIR reported approximately 16% less opioids consumed versus the placebo group, although this was not statistically significant (p=0.5897).
 9

Cohorts 1 and 2. Cohorts 1 and 2 were prespecified to be pooled due to their small sample size. For Cohorts 1 and 2 (pooled), the mean reduction in pain on movement was approximately 20% and statistically significant (p=0.0111) for the POSIMIR group compared to the patient group treated with bupivacaine HCl. With respect to the median total morphine-equivalent opioid dose for supplemental analgesia during the period 0-72 hours post-dose for Cohorts 1 and 2 (pooled), the patient group treated with POSIMIR reported approximately 18% less opioids consumed compared to the bupivacaine HCl group, although this was not statistically significant (p=0.5455).
 Integrated Summary of Efficacy
 The seven controlled trials in the ISE can be separated into two different surgical types, soft tissue and orthopedic. The four soft tissue trials involved incisions or laparoscopic portals either in the abdomen or in the inguinal area for hernia repair. In these surgeries, the pain producing tissue was primarily soft tissue such as viscera, fascia, muscle, or skin. However, in the three orthopedic surgeries involving shoulder surgery, a major pain producing tissue is bone that has been resected during the procedure. Given that the responsiveness to treatment of these different surgical types may be different, a pooled analysis was conducted separately by tissue type.
 In the soft tissue pooled analysis group comprised of 410 patients, 253 were treated with POSIMIR and 157 were treated with SABER-Placebo. The mean pain intensity was lower during the period 0-72 hours post-dose in the POSIMIR group than in the SABER-Placebo group and the difference was statistically significant (p=0.0099). The median total morphine-equivalent dose during the period 0-72 hours post-dose was lower in the POSIMIR group than in the SABER-Placebo group, however the difference was not statistically significant.
 In the orthopedic pooled analysis group comprised of 187 patients, 114 were treated with POSIMIR and 73 were treated with SABER-Placebo. The mean pain intensity during the period 0-72 hours post-dose was lower in the POSIMIR group than in the SABER-Placebo group and the difference was statistically significant (p=0.0205). The median total morphine-equivalent dose during the period 0-72 hours post-dose was lower in the POSIMIR group than in the SABER-Placebo group and the difference was statistically significant (p=0.0025).
 Current Status.    In April 2013, we submitted an NDA as a 505(b)(2) application, which relies in part on the FDA’s findings of safety and effectiveness of a reference drug. In February 2014, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA. Based on the Complete Response Letter and subsequent communications with the FDA, we conducted a new POSIMIR Phase 3 clinical trial (the PERSIST trial) consisting of patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal) surgery to further evaluate the benefits and risks of POSIMIR. We began recruiting patients for this trial in November 2015 comparing POSIMIR to placebo. Based on advice from the FDA received subsequent to the start of the trial, in April 2016 we decided to amend the PERSIST trial. Starting in August 2016, we began implementing Part 2 of the PERSIST trial to evaluate POSIMIR against standard bupivacaine HCl rather than placebo as we had been doing initially in the study. Additionally, we switched the primary efficacy endpoint (pain reduction on movement) from 0-72 hours after surgery to 0-48 hours after surgery. Assessing pain reduction on movement from 0-72 hours became the key secondary efficacy endpoint and other efficacy endpoints, including 72-hour opioid use, remained the same.  In June 2017, we enrolled 296 patients in Part 2 of the PERSIST trial; we had enrolled 92 patients in Part 1 of the PERSIST trial.  In October 2017, we reported that the PERSIST trial did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint of reduction in pain on movement over the first 48 hours after surgery as compared to standard bupivacaine HCl.   While results trended in favor of POSIMIR versus the comparator, they did not achieve statistical significance. We and Sandoz have been working to understand the trial results more fully and to consider potential next steps with the program. 
REMOXY ER (ORADUR-Oxycodone)
 Market Opportunity.    Chronic pain is usually the result of an ongoing condition or significant problem associated with chronic diseases, including cancer, various neurological and skeletal disorders and other ailments such as severe arthritis or a debilitating back injury. As the condition gets worse, the pain often gets worse. Also, long-lasting pain can affect the nervous system to the point where pain persists even if the condition that originally caused the pain is stabilized or improved. This is one reason patients often need stronger pain medication even if their underlying condition has been treated. Chronic pain affects as many as 100 million Americans annually. OxyContin®, a brand name extended-release oral oxycodone-based painkiller, plus other extended release oxycodone-based painkillers, accounted for approximately $2.6 billion in U.S. sales in 2016.
 10

Development Strategy.    REMOXY ER is an oral, long-acting oxycodone gelatin capsule under development with Pain Therapeutics to which we have licensed exclusive, worldwide, development and commercialization rights under a development and license agreement entered into in December 2002.
 REMOXY ER is formulated with our ORADUR technology and is designed to discourage common methods of opioid misuse. Under the agreement with Pain Therapeutics, subject to and upon the achievement of predetermined development and regulatory milestones, we are entitled to receive milestone payments of up to $3.0 million in the aggregate for REMOXY ER. We also receive reimbursement for our research and development efforts on REMOXY ER, and a manufacturing profit on our supply of key excipients for use in REMOXY ER. In addition, if commercialized, we will receive royalties for REMOXY ER of between 6.0% to 11.5% of net sales depending on sales volumes.
 Clinical Program.    Pain Therapeutics submitted an NDA for REMOXY ER to the FDA in June 2008, and in November 2008 the FDA accepted the NDA and granted priority review. In December 2008, Pain Therapeutics received a Complete Response Letter for its NDA for REMOXY ER in which the FDA determined that the NDA was not approved. According to Pain Therapeutics, the FDA indicated that additional non-clinical data would be required to support the approval of REMOXY ER, but the FDA had not requested or recommended additional clinical efficacy studies prior to approval. King Pharmaceuticals (King), which had acquired development and commercialization rights for REMOXY ER from Pain Therapeutics, and which was subsequently acquired by Pfizer, resubmitted the NDA in December of 2010. On June 23, 2011, a Complete Response Letter from the FDA was received by Pfizer. The FDA’s June 2011 Complete Response Letter raised concerns related to, among other matters, the Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls section of the NDA for REMOXY ER. Pfizer undertook efforts to resolve these issues. In October 2013, Pfizer stated that, having achieved technical milestones related to manufacturing, they would continue the development program for REMOXY ER. Following guidance received from the FDA earlier in 2013, Pfizer announced that they were proceeding with the additional clinical studies and other actions required to address the Complete Response Letter. Pfizer stated that these new clinical studies would include, in part, a pivotal bioequivalence study with the modified REMOXY ER formulation to bridge to the clinical data related to the original REMOXY ER formulation, and an abuse-potential study with the modified formulation. In October 2014, Pfizer notified Pain Therapeutics that Pfizer had decided to discontinue development of REMOXY ER, and that Pfizer would return all rights, including responsibility for regulatory activities, to Pain Therapeutics and that Pfizer would continue ongoing activities under the agreement until the scheduled termination date in April 2015. In April 2015, Pain Therapeutics stated that it had resumed responsibility for REMOXY ER under the terms of a letter agreement with Pfizer. In March 2016, Pain Therapeutics resubmitted the NDA for REMOXY ER to the FDA, and in September 2016, Pain Therapeutics received a Complete Response Letter. Based on its review, the FDA has determined that the NDA cannot be approved in its present form and specifies additional actions and data that are needed for drug approval. We understand from its public disclosures that Pain Therapeutics had a meeting with the FDA in February 2017 to discuss the regulatory path forward for REMOXY ER.  In March 2017, Pain Therapeutics announced that it planned to resubmit the REMOXY ER NDA after completing two additional studies with REMOXY ER based on guidance following the recent meeting with the FDA.  The two studies are a clinical abuse potential study via the intranasal route of abuse and a non-clinical abuse potential study using household solvents.  In December 2017, Pain Therapeutics announced that they had successfully concluded a pre-NDA guidance meeting with the FDA.  According to Pain Therapeutics, the purpose of a pre-NDA meeting is to acquaint FDA reviewers with the data to be submitted in the NDA, to uncover any major unresolved problems, including whether the NDA resubmission constitutes a complete response to the 2016 Complete Response Letter, and to discuss the best approach to the presentation and formatting of data in the NDA.   In January 2018, Pain Therapeutics announced positive results from a human abuse potential study using nasal administration of REMOXY ER and that they had completed all studies necessary to resubmit the REMOXY ER NDA to the FDA.  On February 13, 2018, Pain Therapeutics stated that the REMOXY ER NDA had been resubmitted. On March 1, 2018, Pain Therapeutics announced that the FDA has determined that the NDA is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review and the FDA has set a PDUFA target action date of August 7, 2018.  Pain Therapeutics also stated that they believe the FDA will hold an open advisory committee meeting to discuss REMOXY ER, although a date has not yet been determined.    
 
11

ORADUR-ADHD Program
 Market Opportunity.    Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a neurobehavioral condition that is estimated to affect over 5 million (approximately 9%) of U.S. children ages 3-17, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The principal characteristics of ADHD are inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity. The condition presents itself in childhood and can be life long as a significant number of children with ADHD continue to present symptoms as adults. Over 50% of children with ADHD are estimated to being treated by medication, with stimulants such as amphetamine or methylphenidate as first-line treatments. U.S. sales of ADHD treatments were approximately $10.4 billion in 2016. The 2010 National Survey on Drug Use & Health estimates that 1.1 million Americans over the age of 12 abuse stimulants for euphoric highs and increased performance or wakefulness.
 Development Strategy.    We are developing a drug candidate (ORADUR- Methylphenidate ER) based on our ORADUR Technology for the treatment of ADHD. This drug candidate is intended to provide once-a-day dosing with added tamper resistant characteristics to address common methods of abuse and misuse of these types of drugs. In August 2009, we entered into a development and license agreement with Orient Pharma, a diversified multinational pharmaceutical, healthcare and consumer products company with headquarters in Taiwan, under which we granted to Orient Pharma development and commercialization rights in certain defined Asian and South Pacific countries to ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER. We retain rights to North America, Europe, Japan and all other countries not specifically licensed to Orient Pharma. Under our agreement with Orient Pharma, the parties will collaborate to perform a clinical development program through a Phase 2 study intended to produce a data package suitable for further development of the drug candidate by us as well as Orient Pharma in their respective territories. We will be responsible for formulation and study design of the Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical program which Orient Pharma has agreed to fund and execute. Orient Pharma would be responsible for all remaining development and commercialization activities for ORADUR- Methylphenidate ER in the licensed territory. If commercialized, we will be entitled to receive a royalty on sales of ORADUR- Methylphenidate ER by Orient Pharma. Orient Pharma has committed to supply a portion of our commercial requirements in all territories other than the United States for ORADUR- Methylphenidate ER. In 2013, we and Orient Pharma selected a lead formulation based on its potential for rapid onset of action, long duration for once-a-day dosing and target pharmacokinetic profile as demonstrated in a Phase 1 trial. In addition, this product candidate is expected to utilize a small capsule size relative to the leading existing long-acting products on the market. 
 Orient Pharma conducted a Phase 3, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-way cross-over study designed to observe the efficacy and safety of ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER in children and adolescents with ADHD between the ages of 6 and 18 years.  The study was conducted in Taiwan and enrolled 110 subjects, of which 99 evaluable subjects completed the study.  The primary efficacy measure in this study was to demonstrate the superiority of ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER over placebo using the Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham-IV (SNAP-IV) teacher form score.  The SNAP-IV rating scale contains 26 questions, classified as three components of ADHD symptoms (inattention, hyperactivity/impulsivity and oppositional defiant disorder).  For the primary efficacy endpoint, ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER was superior to placebo in a statistically significant manner (p=0.0044 for the intent to treat population and p=0.0032 for the per protocol population).  There were no serious adverse events in this pivotal study. Orient Pharma’s analysis indicates that the incidence of adverse events was generally consistent with other ADHD products. 
 We understand that Orient Pharma is pursuing a New Drug Application with the Taiwan FDA for ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER.   DURECT is seeking potential development and commercialization partners for ORADUR-Methylphenidate ER for major markets not licensed to Orient Pharma. 
 Relday
 In July 2011, we entered into a development and license agreement with Zogenix, Inc., (Zogenix) for the purpose of developing and commercializing Relday, a proprietary, long-acting injectable formulation of risperidone using our SABER-controlled release formulation technology potentially in combination with Zogenix’s DosePro® needle-free, subcutaneous drug delivery system. Risperidone is one of the most widely prescribed medications used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults and teenagers 13 years of age and older. Under the agreement, we granted Zogenix worldwide development and commercialization rights to Relday.
 12

In January 2013, Zogenix reported positive single-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) results from a Phase 1 clinical trial of Relday. According to Zogenix, adverse events in the Phase 1 trial in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia were generally mild to moderate and consistent with other risperidone products. The Phase 1 clinical trial for Relday was conducted as a single-center, open-label, safety and PK trial of 30 patients with chronic, stable schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Per Zogenix, based on the favorable safety and PK profile demonstrated with the 25 mg and 50 mg once-monthly doses tested in the Phase 1 trial, Zogenix extended the study to include a 100 mg dose of the same formulation. In May 2013, Zogenix announced positive results with the 100 mg arm, demonstrating dose proportionality across the full dose range that would be anticipated to be used in clinical practice. In March 2015, Zogenix commenced a Phase 1b multi-dose parallel clinical trial, enrolling 60 subjects, for which Zogenix announced positive top line results in September 2015. According to Zogenix, the results for Relday demonstrated that risperidone plasma concentrations in the therapeutic range were achieved on the first day of dosing, reached steady state levels following the second dose and consistently maintained therapeutic levels throughout the four-month period. Also according to Zogenix, Relday was generally safe and well-tolerated, with results consistent with the profile of risperidone and the previous Phase 1 single-dose clinical trial. 
 In August 2017, we and Zogenix terminated the Zogenix Agreement.  Under the mutual termination agreement, Zogenix’s development and commercialization rights are returned to us, and Zogenix will transfer to us all regulatory filings and development information related to Relday.
 Depot Injectable Programs
 In addition to biologic drugs, many traditional small molecule drugs have to be given by frequent injections, which is costly, inconvenient and may result in either unwanted side effects or suboptimal efficacy. We have active programs underway to improve our depot injectable systems and to apply those systems to various drugs and drug candidates, and have entered into a number of feasibility studies with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to test their products in our systems. The Relday program with Zogenix and the ophthalmic program with Santen are two projects which started as depot injectable feasibility projects and then matured into development and license agreements.
Research Programs in other Therapeutic Categories
 We and our corporate collaborators also have underway a number of research programs covering medical diseases and conditions other than pain. Such programs include various diseases and disorders of the central nervous system, cardiovascular disease, ophthalmic conditions and metabolic disorders. In conducting our research programs and determining which particular efforts to prioritize for formal development, we employ a rigorous opportunity assessment process that takes into account the unmet medical need, commercial opportunity, technical feasibility, clinical viability, intellectual property considerations, and the development path including costs to achieve various critical milestones.
 RBP-7000
 In September 2017, we entered into an agreement with Indivior, under which we assigned to Indivior certain patents that may provide further intellectual property protection for RBP-7000, Indivior’s investigational once-monthly injectable risperidone product for the treatment of schizophrenia.  In consideration for such assignment, Indivior has made an upfront non-refundable payment to DURECT of $12.5 million, and has also agreed to make an additional $5 million payment to DURECT contingent upon FDA approval of RBP-7000, as well as quarterly earn-out payments that are based on a single digit percentage of U.S. net sales for certain products covered by the assigned patent rights, including RBP-7000.   In October 2017, Indivior disclosed that it submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on September 28, 2017 to seek marketing approval for RBP-7000.  Indivior has stated that this NDA submission includes the results from a pivotal Phase 3 study assessing the efficacy and safety of RBP-7000 and an open-label, long-terms safety study.  Indivior noted that in the pivotal randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, RBP-7000 demonstrated statistically significant clinical improvement compared to placebo based on changes in mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total and Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) scores at 8 weeks.  In December 2017, Indivior announced that the FDA had accepted the NDA for RBP-7000 and that the FDA had set a PDUFA (Prescription Drug User Fee Act) target action date of July 28, 2018.
 13

DURECT Strategy
 Our objective is to develop multiple pharmaceutical products that address significant unmet medical needs and improve patients’ quality of life. To achieve this objective, our strategy includes the following key elements:
 Apply our Drug Development Expertise to New Chemical Entities Derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program.    We have assembled a core team of employees with considerable experience in drug development, and it is our intent to leverage their capabilities by developing pharmaceuticals derived from our Epigenetic Regulator Program. We believe that these new chemical entities may have utility for several metabolic diseases such as NAFLD, NASH, PSC and other liver conditions, in acute organ injuries such as AKI and AH, in various orphan diseases, and in inflammatory skin conditions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. We believe that these product candidates may be of interest to larger pharmaceutical companies and that it may be possible to license the rights to certain products, formulations, indications or territories from this program while retaining the rights to other product candidates, formulations, indications or territories for either our own development and commercialization or for licensing at a later stage of development.
 Focus on Certain Acute Indications, Chronic Debilitating Medical Conditions and Certain Local Pain Conditions.    Many of the diseases and disorders that present great challenges to medicine include pain management, CNS disorders, metabolic disorders, cardiovascular disease, acute organ injury, ophthalmic conditions and other chronic diseases. In addition, we have identified certain local and acute pain and other medical conditions that we believe can be addressed by improved therapeutics. Our current efforts focus on using our versatile drug delivery platform technologies to develop products that address these medical conditions and on exploiting our Epigenetic Regulator Program through which we have identified new chemical entities that may have utility in conditions such as acute organ injuries and chronic metabolic/lipid disorders.
 Diversify Risk by Pursuing Multiple Programs in Development.    In order to reduce the risks inherent in pharmaceutical product development, we have diversified our product pipeline such that, between our own programs and those where we have collaborated, we presently have two programs for which New Drug Applications have been filed and Complete Response Letters have been received, and several other programs in various stages of development. We believe that having multiple programs in development helps mitigate the negative consequences to us of any setbacks or delays in any one of our programs.
 Enable Product Development Through Strategic Agreements.    We believe that entering into selective strategic collaborations and other arrangements with respect to our product development programs and technology can enhance the success of our product development and commercialization, the value of our intellectual property portfolio, mitigate our risk and enable us to better manage our operating costs. Additionally, such collaborations and arrangements enable us to leverage investment by third parties and reduce our net cash burn, while retaining significant economic rights.
 Enable the Development of Pharmaceutical Systems Based on Biotechnology and Other New Compounds.    We believe there is a significant opportunity for pharmaceutical systems to add value to therapeutic medicine by administering biologics, such as proteins and peptides. We believe our technologies will improve the specificity, potency, convenience and cost-effectiveness of proteins, peptides, and other newly discovered drugs. Our systems can enable these compounds to be effectively administered, thus allowing them to become viable medicines. We can address the stability and storage needs of these compounds through our advanced formulation technology and package them in a suitable pharmaceutical system for optimum delivery. Through continuous administration, the SABER and CLOUD technology platforms may eliminate or reduce the need for multiple injections of these drugs. In addition, through precise placement of our proprietary biodegradable drug formulations, proteins can be delivered to specific tissues for extended periods of time, thus ensuring that large molecule agents are present at the desired site of action and minimizing the potential for adverse side effects elsewhere in the body.
 Build Our Own Commercial Organization.    In the future, we may elect to build our own commercial, sales and marketing capability in order to capture more of the economic value of certain products that we may develop. If we choose to enter into third-party collaborations to commercialize our pharmaceutical product candidates, we may in the future enter into these alliances under circumstances that allow us to participate in the sales and marketing of these products.
 14

License Agreements
 We have entered into an exclusive in-license and research and development agreement with the Virginia Commonwealth University Intellectual Property Foundation regarding the new chemical entities under development through our Epigenetic Regulator Program, including DUR-928. Under this licensing arrangement, we have agreed to undertake certain efforts to bring licensed products to market, prosecute related patents and report on progress to VCU. In addition, we are obligated to pay low single-digit percentage patent royalties on net sales of licensed products, subject to annual minimum payments and additional milestone payments. This license includes rights to eight patent families. We may terminate this agreement at any time by written notice, and Virginia Commonwealth University may terminate this agreement by written notice if there is an uncured material breach.
Strategic Agreements
 We have entered into the following strategic collaboration and other agreements:
 Sandoz AG.  In May 2017, we and Sandoz entered into a license agreement to develop and market POSIMIR in the United States. In June 2017, following the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR), the agreement became effective. POSIMIR is our investigational post-operative pain relief depot that utilizes our patented SABER® technology to deliver bupivacaine to provide up to three days of pain relief after surgery. We retain commercialization rights in the rest of the world. Under the terms of the agreement, Sandoz made a non-refundable upfront payment of $20 million which we received in June 2017, with the potential for up to an additional $43 million in milestone payments based on successful development and regulatory milestones (of which $30 million is currently feasible), and up to an additional $230 million in sales-based milestones.  We are responsible for the completion of the ongoing PERSIST Phase 3 clinical trial for POSIMIR as well as FDA interactions through potential approval. If approved, we also have certain manufacturing obligations under this agreement. Sandoz will have exclusive commercialization rights in the United States upon regulatory approval with sole funding responsibility for commercialization activities.  Sandoz will pay us a tiered double-digit royalty on product sales for a defined period, after which the license granted to Sandoz shall convert to a non-exclusive, fully paid, royalty-free, irrevocable and perpetual license. The term of the agreement shall be for the duration of Sandoz’s obligation to pay royalties for product sales under the Agreement. The agreement provides each party with specified termination rights, including the right of Sandoz to terminate at will after a specified period and each party to terminate the agreement upon material breach of the agreement by the other party. In October 2017, we announced that PERSIST, the Phase 3 clinical trial for POSIMIR, did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint of reduction in pain on movement over the first 48 hours after surgery as compared to standard bupivacaine HCl. The failure of the PERSIST trial for POSIMIR to achieve its primary endpoint gives Sandoz a right to terminate our agreement with them on thirty days’ notice, in addition to the rights they have to terminate for convenience on six months’ notice. 
Indivior UK Ltd.  In September 2017, we entered into a patent purchase agreement (the “Indivior Agreement) with Indivior.  Pursuant to the Indivior Agreement, we assigned to Indivior certain patents that may provide further intellectual property protection for RBP-7000, Indivior’s investigational once-monthly injectable risperidone product for the treatment of schizophrenia.  In consideration for such assignment, Indivior made an upfront non-refundable payment to us of $12.5 million, and also agreed to make an additional $5 million payment to us contingent upon the achievement of a regulatory milestone, as well as quarterly earn-out payments that are based on a single digit percentage of U.S. net sales for certain products covered by the assigned patent rights, including RBP-7000. The assigned patent rights include granted patents extending through at least 2026.  We also receive a non-exclusive right under the assigned patents to develop and commercialize certain risperidone-containing products and products that do not contain risperidone or buprenorphine.  The agreement contains customary representations, warranties and indemnities of the parties. We received the non-refundable payment of $12.5 million from Indivior in September 2017 and recognized this amount as revenue from sale of intellectual property rights in the year ended December 31, 2017 as we do not have any continuing obligations under the purchase agreement.
 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.    In December 2014, we and Santen entered into a definitive agreement (the Santen Agreement). Pursuant to the Santen Agreement, we have granted Santen an exclusive worldwide license to our proprietary SABER formulation platform and other intellectual property to develop and commercialize a sustained release product utilizing our SABER technology to deliver an ophthalmology drug. Santen will control 
 15

and fund the development and commercialization program, and the parties will establish a joint management committee to oversee, review and coordinate the development activities of the parties under the Agreement.
 In connection with the license agreement, Santen paid us a non-refundable upfront fee of $2.0 million in cash and agreed to make contingent cash payments to us of up to $76.0 million upon the achievement of certain milestones, of which $13.0 million are development-based milestones (none of which has been achieved as of December 31, 2017), and $63.0 million are commercialization-based milestones including milestones requiring the achievement of certain product sales targets (none of which has been achieved as of December 31, 2017). Santen will also pay for certain of our costs incurred in the development of the licensed product. If the product is commercialized, we would also receive a tiered royalty on annual net product sales ranging from single-digit to the low double digits, determined on a country-by-country basis. Santen may terminate the Santen Agreement without cause at any time upon prior written notice, and either party may terminate the Santen Agreement upon certain circumstances including a material uncured breach. As of December 31, 2017, the cumulative aggregate payments received by us under this agreement were $3.3 million. In January 2018, we were notified by Santen that due to a shift in near term priorities, Santen has elected to reallocate R&D resources and put our program on pause until further notice.
 Zogenix, Inc.    In July 2011, we and Zogenix entered into a Development and License Agreement (the Zogenix Agreement). We and Zogenix had previously been working together under a feasibility agreement pursuant to which our research and development costs were reimbursed by Zogenix. Under the Zogenix Agreement, Zogenix was responsible for the clinical development and commercialization of a proprietary, long-acting injectable formulation of risperidone using our SABER and other controlled-release depot formulation technologies. We were responsible for non-clinical, formulation and CMC development activities. We were reimbursed by Zogenix for our research and development efforts on the product. Zogenix paid a non-refundable upfront fee to us of $2.25 million in July 2011. Zogenix was obligated to pay us up to $103 million in total future milestone payments with respect to the product subject to and upon the achievement of various development, regulatory and sales milestones. Of these potential milestones, $28 million were development-based milestones (none of which had been achieved) and $75 million are sales-based milestones (none of which had been achieved). Zogenix was also required to pay a mid single-digit to low double-digit percentage patent royalty on annual net sales of the product determined on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis.
 We granted to Zogenix an exclusive worldwide license, with sub-license rights, to our intellectual property rights related to our proprietary polymeric and non-polymeric controlled-release formulation technology to make and have made, use, offer for sale, sell and import risperidone products, where risperidone is the sole active agent, for administration by injection in the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or other psychiatric related disorders in humans. We retained the right to supply Zogenix’s Phase 3 clinical trial and commercial product requirements on the terms set forth in the Zogenix Agreement.  Zogenix was permitted to terminate the Zogenix Agreement without cause at any time upon prior written notice, and either party was permitted to terminate the Zogenix Agreement upon certain circumstances. In August 2017, we and Zogenix terminated the Zogenix Agreement.  Under the mutual termination agreement, Zogenix’s development and commercialization rights are returned to us, and Zogenix will transfer to us all regulatory filings and development information related to Relday. As of December 31, 2017, the cumulative aggregate payments received by us under this agreement and the prior feasibility agreement were $20.1 million.
 Pain Therapeutics, Inc.    In December 2002, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Pain Therapeutics to develop and commercialize on a worldwide basis oral sustained release, abuse deterrent opioid products incorporating four specified opioid drugs using our ORADUR technology. The agreement also provides Pain Therapeutics with the exclusive right to commercialize products developed under the agreement on a worldwide basis. In connection with the execution of the agreement, Pain Therapeutics paid us an upfront fee. In November 2005, Pain Therapeutics sublicensed the worldwide commercialization rights (except for Australia and New Zealand) to certain products developed under the agreement (including REMOXY ER) to King. In February 2011 Pfizer acquired King and thereby assumed the rights and obligations of King with respect to the sublicense agreement. In December 2005, we amended our agreement with Pain Therapeutics in order to specify our obligations with respect to the supply of key excipients for use in the licensed products. Under the amended agreement, we are responsible for formulation development, supply of selected key excipients used in the manufacture of licensed product and other specified tasks. We receive reimbursement for our research and development efforts on the licensed products and a manufacturing profit on our supply of key product excipients to 
 16

Pain Therapeutics for use in the licensed products. In 2015, Pain Therapeutics returned to us all of Pain Therapeutics’ rights and was relieved of its obligations under our license agreement to develop and commercialize ORADUR-based formulations of hydrocodone but without impacting the rights and obligations of the two parties with respect to REMOXY ER, hydromorphone and oxymorphone. In 2016, Pain Therapeutics returned to us all of Pain Therapeutics’ rights and was relieved of its obligations under our license agreement to develop and commercialize ORADUR-based formulations of hydromorphone and oxymorphone but without impacting the rights and obligations of the two parties with respect to REMOXY ER. Under the agreement with Pain Therapeutics, subject to and upon the achievement of predetermined development and regulatory milestones for REMOXY ER, we are entitled to receive milestone payments of up to $3.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2017, we had received $1.5 million in cumulative milestone payments. In addition, if commercialized, we will receive royalties for REMOXY ER of between 6.0% to 11.5% of net sales of the product depending on the sales volumes. This agreement can be terminated by either party for material breach by the other party and by Pain Therapeutics without cause. As of December 31, 2017, the cumulative aggregate payments received by us from Pain Therapeutics under this agreement were $40.4 million.
 In addition, in 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recognized zero, $653,000 and $96,000 of product revenue, respectively, related to key excipients for REMOXY ER and the associated cost of goods sold was zero, $216,000, and $51,000, respectively.
 Commercial Product Lines
 ALZET
 The ALZET product line consists of miniature, implantable osmotic pumps and accessories used for experimental research in mice, rats and other laboratory animals. These pumps are neither approved nor intended for human use. ALZET pumps continuously deliver drugs, hormones and other test agents at controlled rates from one day to six weeks without the need for external connections, frequent handling or repeated dosing. In laboratory research, these infusion pumps can be used for systemic administration when implanted under the skin or in the body. They can be attached to a catheter for intravenous, intracerebral, or intra-arterial infusion or for targeted delivery, where the effects of a drug or test agent are localized in a particular tissue or organ. The wide use and applications of the ALZET product line is evidenced by the more than 16,000 scientific references that now exist.
 We acquired the ALZET product line and assets used primarily in the manufacture, sale and distribution of this product line from ALZA in April 2000. 
 LACTEL Absorbable Polymers
 We currently design, develop and manufacture a wide range of standard and custom biodegradable polymers based on lactide, glycolide and caprolactone under the LACTEL brand for pharmaceutical and medical device clients for use as raw materials in their products. These materials are manufactured and sold by us directly from our facility in Alabama and are used by us and our third-party customers for a variety of controlled-release and medical-device applications, including several FDA-approved commercial products.
Marketing and Sales
 Historically, we have established strategic distribution and marketing alliances for our product candidates to leverage the established sales organizations that certain pharmaceutical companies have in markets we are targeting. In the future, we may elect to build our own commercial, sales and marketing capability in order to capture more of the economic value of certain products that we may develop. If we choose to enter into third-party collaborations to commercialize our pharmaceutical product candidates, we may in the future enter into these alliances under circumstances that allow us to participate in the sales and marketing of these products. We will continue to pursue strategic alliances and collaborators from time to time consistent with our strategy to leverage the established sales organizations of third-party collaborators to achieve greater market penetration for some of our products than we could on our own. 
 We market and sell our ALZET and LACTEL product lines through a direct sales force in the U.S. and through a network of distributors outside of the U.S.
 17

Suppliers
 We purchase sucrose acetate isobutyrate, a raw material for our ORADUR and SABER-based pharmaceutical systems, including POSIMIR, REMOXY ER and other ORADUR-based drug candidates, pursuant to a supply agreement with Eastman Chemical Company. Our supply agreement with Eastman Chemical Company requires us to purchase a certain portion of our requirements for sucrose acetate isobutyrate from Eastman Chemical and obligates us to pay a fee per annum if our purchases do not meet specified sales targets. All of the contractually committed amounts under this agreement have been accrued. The agreement may be terminated by either party under certain circumstances, including any material uncured breach by, or the insolvency, liquidation or bankruptcy of, or similar proceedings involving, the other party. We believe that this agreement will provide a sufficient supply of these raw materials to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. We do not have in place long term supply agreements with respect to all of the components of any of our pharmaceutical product candidates, however, and are subject to the risk that we may not be able to procure all required components in adequate quantities with acceptable quality, within acceptable time frames or at reasonable cost.
Customers
 Our product revenues principally are derived from the ALZET product line to academic and pharmaceutical industry researchers, the LACTEL product lines to pharmaceutical and medical device customers, and from the sale of certain key excipients that are included in REMOXY ER and other products. Until such time that we are able to bring our pharmaceutical product candidates to market, if at all, we expect these to be our principal sources of product revenue. We also receive revenue from collaborative research and development arrangements with our third-party collaborators. In 2017, Sandoz and Indivior accounted for 41% and 25% of our total revenues.  In 2016, Tolmar Inc. accounted for 15% of our total revenues. In 2015, Zogenix and Tolmar Inc. accounted for 26% and 11% of our total revenues, respectively. 
Manufacturing
 The process for manufacturing our pharmaceutical product candidates is technically complex, requires special skills, and must be performed in a qualified facility. We have entered into development and commercial manufacturing agreements with third parties for the manufacture of POSIMIR and DUR-928. In addition, we have a small multi-discipline manufacturing facility in California that we have used to manufacture research and clinical supplies of several of our pharmaceutical product candidates under GMP, including POSIMIR and REMOXY ER. In the future, we intend to develop additional manufacturing capabilities for our pharmaceutical product candidates and components to meet our demands and those of our third party collaborators by contracting with third party manufacturers and by potentially constructing additional manufacturing space at our current facilities in California and Alabama. We manufacture our ALZET product line and certain key components for REMOXY ER at one of our California facilities and our LACTEL product line at our Alabama facility.
Patents and Proprietary Rights
 Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, to protect trade secrets, to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. As of March 2, 2018, we owned or exclusively in-licensed over 45 unexpired issued U.S. patents and over 410 unexpired issued foreign patents (which include granted European patent rights that have been validated in various EU member states). In addition, we have over 35 pending U.S. patent applications and over 100 foreign applications pending in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada and other countries.
 Proprietary rights relating to our planned and potential products will be protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Patents owned by or licensed to us may not afford protection against competitors, and our pending patent applications now or hereafter filed by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S.
 18

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, their enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Our patents or patent applications, or those licensed to us, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent, which could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position.
 Because patent applications in the U.S. are typically maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after filing and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for protection of inventions set forth in such patent applications.
 Our planned or potential products may be covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, in which case we would need to obtain a license to continue developing or marketing these products. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain any required licenses, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to design around these patents, or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is foreclosed. Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert such claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. In addition, interference, derivation, post-grant oppositions, and similar proceedings may be necessary to determine rights to inventions in our patents and patent applications. Litigation or similar proceedings could result in substantial costs to and diversion of effort by us, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts by us may not be successful.
 We may rely, in certain circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and certain contractors. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may also arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
 Government Regulation
 The Food and Drug Administration.    The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, distribution, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. We believe that our initial pharmaceutical systems will be regulated as drugs by the FDA rather than as biologics or devices.
 The process required by the FDA under the new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the Act) before our initial pharmaceutical systems may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following:
  
• | preclinical laboratory and animal tests;
--+-----------------------------------------


• | submission of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application which must become effective before clinical trials may begin;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed pharmaceutical in our intended use; and
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | FDA approval of a new drug application.
--+----------------------------------------

 19

Section 505 of the Act describes three types of new drug applications: (1) an application that contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness (section 505(b)(1)); (2) an application that contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness but where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference (section 505(b)(2)); and (3) an application that contains information to show that the proposed product is identical in active ingredient, dosage form, strength, route of administration, labeling, quality, performance characteristics and intended use, among other things, to a previously approved product (section 505(j)). A supplement to an application is a new drug application. We expect that most of the Drug Delivery Program product candidates will be approved by submission of a new drug application under section 505(b)(2) and that our drug candidates deriving from our Epigenetic Regulator Program will be approved by submission of a new drug application under section 505(b)(1).
 The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even though several of our pharmaceutical systems utilize active drug ingredients that are commercially marketed in the United States in other dosage forms, we need to establish safety and effectiveness of those active ingredients in the formulation and dosage forms that we are developing.
 Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product, its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical system. We then submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before we may begin human clinical trials. Each subsequent new clinical protocol must also be submitted to the IND. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND and imposes a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. Further, an independent Institutional Review Board at each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trials must review and approve any clinical study as well as the related informed consent forms and authorization forms that permit us to use individually identifiable health information of study participants.
 Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases which may overlap:
  
• | Phase 1: The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 2: Involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to determine the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 3: When Phase 2 clinical trials demonstrate that a dosage range of the product is effective and has an acceptable safety profile, Phase 3 clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population, at multiple, geographically dispersed clinical study sites. 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 In the case of products for severe diseases, such as chronic pain, or life-threatening diseases such as cancer, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients with disease rather than in healthy volunteers. Since these patients already have the target disease or condition, these studies may provide initial evidence of efficacy traditionally obtained in Phase 2 trials, and thus these trials are frequently referred to as Phase 1/2 clinical trials. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials of our pharmaceutical systems within any specific time period, if at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the Institutional Review Board or the sponsor may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. During the clinical development of products, sponsors frequently meet and consult with the FDA in order to ensure that the design of their studies will likely provide data both sufficient and relevant for later regulatory approval; however, no assurance of approvability can be given by the FDA.
 The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as part of a new drug application, or NDA, for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the product. Submission of an NDA requires the payment of a substantial user fee to the FDA, and although the agency has defined user fee 
 20

goals for the time in which to respond to sponsor applications, we cannot assure you that the FDA will act in any particular timeframe. The FDA may deny a new drug application if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data. Even if such data is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the new drug application does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. Requirements for additional Phase 4 studies (post approval marketing studies) to confirm safety and effectiveness in a broader commercial use population may be imposed as a condition of marketing approval. In addition, the FDA requires surveillance programs to monitor approved products which have been commercialized, and the agency has the power to require changes in labeling or to prevent further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Any comparative claims that we would like to make for our products vis-à-vis other dosage forms or products will need to be substantiated generally by two adequate and well-controlled head-to-head clinical trials.
 Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes several years and the actual time required may vary substantially, based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. We cannot be certain that the FDA or any other regulatory agency will grant approval for any of our pharmaceutical systems under development on a timely basis, if at all. Success in preclinical or early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Evolving safety concerns can result in the imposition of new requirements for expensive and time consuming tests, such as for QT interval cardiotoxicity testing. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific indications. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Any pharmaceutical systems that we may develop and obtain approval for would also be subject to adverse findings of the active drug ingredients being marketed in different dosage forms and formulations. Delays in obtaining, or failures to obtain regulatory approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business. Marketing our pharmaceutical systems abroad will require similar regulatory approvals and is subject to similar risks. In addition, we cannot predict what adverse governmental regulations may arise from future U.S. or foreign governmental action.
 Any pharmaceutical systems manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and state agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practices, which impose procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third party manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future suppliers will be able to comply with the GMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements.
 The FDA regulates drug labeling and promotion activities. The FDA has actively enforced regulations prohibiting the marketing of products for unapproved uses, and federal and state authorities are also actively litigating against sponsors who promote their drugs for unapproved uses under various fraud and abuse and false claims act statutes. We and our pharmaceutical systems are also subject to a variety of state laws and regulations in those states or localities where our pharmaceutical systems are or will be marketed. Any applicable state or local regulations may hinder our ability to market our pharmaceutical systems in those states or localities. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future.
 The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our potential pharmaceutical systems. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in the U.S. and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad.
 21

For several years, the FDA has required companies engaged in manufacturing and sale of opioid drug products to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) to ensure that the benefits of the drugs continue to outweigh the risks. The affected opioid drugs include brand name and generic products and are formulated with the active ingredients fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, and oxymorphone. 
 All manufacturers of long-acting and extended-release opioids must ensure that training is provided to prescribers of these medications and develop information that prescribers can use when counseling patients about the risks and benefits of opioid use. 
 More recently, in February 2016, the FDA announced a comprehensive action plan to take concrete steps towards reducing the impact of opioid abuse on American families and communities. As part of this plan, the agency will review product and labelling decisions and re-examine the risk-benefit paradigm for opioids.
 Certain of our drug candidates, including REMOXY ER, are subject to the REMS requirement. These required REMS programs may cause delays in marketing approvals for these drug candidates. In addition, there may be increased cost, administrative burden and potential liability associated with the marketing and sale of these types of drug candidates subject to the REMS requirement, which could negatively impact the commercial benefits to us and our collaborators from the sale of these drug candidates.
 The Drug Enforcement Administration.    The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Certain active ingredients in REMOXY are listed by the DEA as Schedule II under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Consequently, their manufacture, research, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of oversight and regulation. For example, all Schedule II drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription. Furthermore, the amount of Schedule II substances we can obtain for clinical trials and commercial distribution is limited by the DEA and our quota may not be sufficient to complete clinical trials or meet commercial demand. There is a risk that DEA regulations may interfere with the supply of the drugs used in our clinical trials, and, in the future, our ability to produce and distribute our products in the volume needed to meet commercial demand, which could negatively impact us and our collaborators.
Competition
 We may face competition from other companies in numerous industries including pharmaceuticals, medical devices and drug delivery. POSIMIR, REMOXY ER and RBP-7000, if approved, will compete with currently marketed oral opioids, transdermal opioids, local anesthetic patches, anti-psychotics, stimulants, implantable and external infusion pumps which can be used for infusion of opioids and local anesthetics. Products of these types are marketed by Purdue Pharma, AbbVie, Janssen, Medtronic, Endo, AstraZeneca, Pernix Therapeutics, Tricumed, Halyard Health, Cumberland Pharmaceuticals, Pacira, Acorda Therapeutics, Mallinckrodt, Shire, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, Novartis, Egalet and others. Purdue Pharma, Sandoz, Actavis, Collegium Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Intellipharmaceutics, Egalet, Charleston Laboratories, Daiichi Sankyo, Teva Pharmaceuticals and others have also announced regulatory approval or development plans for abuse deterrent opioid products. Our ORADUR-ADHD product candidates, if approved, will compete with currently marketed or approved products by Shire, Johnson & Johnson, UCB, Novartis, Noven, Eli Lilly, Pfizer and others. RBP-7000, if approved, will compete with currently marketed products by Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Astra Zeneca, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Otsuka, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, Teva and others. Competition for DUR-928, if approved, will depend on the specific indications for which DUR-928 is approved. Intercept Pharmaceuticals, Gilead, Shire, Conatus Pharmaceuticals, Allergan, Galectin Therapeutics, Genfit, Pfizer, Roche, Galmed Pharmaceuticals, Tobira Therapeutics, Madrigal Therapeutics, Gemphire, Enanta Pharmaceuticals, Novo Nordisk, Takeda, Vital Therapies and others have development plans for products to treat NAFLD/NASH and other liver diseases. Ischemix, Thrasos Therapeutics, AM-Pharma, Complexa, AbbVie, AlloCure, Quark Pharmaceuticals and others have development plans for products to treat acute kidney injury. Bristol Myers Squibb, Novartis, Eli Lilly, Almirall, LEO Pharma, Pfizer, Janssen, Abbvie, Boerhinger-Ingelheim, Amgen, Sandoz, Astra-Zeneca, Anacor, Valeant, Takeda, Merck, Idera Pharmaceuticals and others have development plans for products to treat psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. Numerous companies are applying significant resources and expertise to the problems of drug delivery and several of these are focusing or may focus on delivery of drugs to the intended site of action, including Alkermes, Pacira, 
 22

Immune Pharmaceuticals, Innocoll, Nektar, Kimberly-Clark, Acorda Therapeutics, Flamel, Alexza, Mallinckrodt, Pfizer, Cumberland Pharmaceuticals, Egalet, Acura, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Phosphagenics, Intellipharmaceutics, Collegium Pharmaceutical, Heron Therapeutics and others. Some of these competitors may be addressing the same therapeutic areas or indications as we are. Our current and potential competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection or commercializing products before us. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources.
 Any products we develop using our pharmaceutical systems technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Many of our potential competitors in these markets have greater development, financial, manufacturing, marketing, and sales resources than we do and we cannot be certain that they will not succeed in developing products or technologies which will render our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, many of those potential competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in their respective fields.
 Corporate History, Headquarters and Website Information
 We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1998. We completed our initial public offering on September 28, 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 10260 Bubb Road, Cupertino, California, 95014. Our telephone number is (408) 777-1417, and our website address is www.durect.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website to access all of this information is www.sec.gov. Our Code of Ethics can be found on our website.
 Employees
 As of March 2, 2018, we had 93 employees, including 49 in research and development, 21 in manufacturing and 23 in selling, general and administrative. From time to time, we also employ independent contractors to support our research, development and administrative organizations. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
 Our executive officers and their ages as of March 2, 2018 are as follows:
 
 
Name | Age | Position 
-------------------------+-----+------------------------------------------------------------------
Felix Theeuwes, D.Sc. | 80 | Chairman, Distinguished Scientist and Director 
James E. Brown, D.V.M. | 61 | President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
Matthew J. Hogan, M.B.A. | 58 | Chief Financial Officer 
Judy R. Joice | 61 | Senior Vice President, Operations and Corporate Quality Assurance

 
Felix Theeuwes, D.Sc. co-founded DURECT in February 1998 and has served as our Chairman, Chief Scientific Officer and a Director since July 1998. In February 2018, his title became Chairman, Distinguished Scientist and Director.  Prior to co-founding DURECT, Dr. Theeuwes held various positions at ALZA Corporation, including President of New Ventures from August 1997 to August 1998, President of ALZA Research and Development from 1995 to August 1997, President of ALZA Technology Institute from 1994 to April 1995 and Chief Scientist from 1982 to June 1997. Dr. Theeuwes holds a D.Sc. degree in Physics from the University of Leuven (Louvain), Belgium. He also served as a post-doctoral fellow and visiting research assistant professor in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Kansas and has completed the Stanford Executive Program.
 23

James E. Brown, D.V.M. co-founded DURECT in February 1998 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since June 1998. He previously worked at ALZA Corporation as Vice President of Biopharmaceutical and Implant Research and Development from June 1995 to June 1998. Prior to that, Dr. Brown held various positions at Syntex Corporation, a pharmaceutical company, including Director of Business Development from May 1994 to May 1995, Director of Joint Ventures for Discovery Research from April 1992 to May 1995, and held a number of positions including Program Director for Syntex Research and Development from October 1985 to March 1992. Dr. Brown holds a B.A. from San Jose State University and a D.V.M. (Doctor of Veterinary Medicine) from the University of California, Davis where he also conducted post-graduate work in pharmacology and toxicology.
 Matthew J. Hogan, M.B.A. has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2006. He was the Chief Financial Officer at Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. from 2000 to 2006, and a consultant from March 2006. Prior to joining Ciphergen, Mr. Hogan was the Chief Financial Officer at Avocet Medical, Inc. from 1999 to 2000. From 1996 to 1999, Mr. Hogan was the Chief Financial Officer at Microcide Pharmaceuticals, Inc. From 1986 to 1996, he held various positions in the investment banking group at Merrill Lynch & Co., most recently as a Director focusing on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors. Mr. Hogan holds a B.A. in economics from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration.
 Judy R. Joice has served as our Senior Vice President, Operations and Corporate Quality Assurance since March 2014 and as our Vice President, Operations and Corporate Quality Assurance since April 2011. Previously, Ms. Joice served as our Vice President, Corporate Quality Assurance since July 2008 and as our Executive Director, Quality Assurance from July 2007 to July 2008. She has over 25 years’ experience in the pharmaceutical industry with such companies as Nektar Therapeutics, Oread, Roche Pharmaceuticals, and Syntex Research. During her career, Ms. Joice has gained broad experience in CMC development activities including novel excipients, new chemical entities, devices, and combination products. She has developed, implemented and managed all aspects of company-wide quality systems and compliance functions, ranging from drug development through commercial manufacturing. Ms. Joice has a B.S. in Chemistry from California State University, Hayward.
 

 