Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business
--------+---------

Background
 
We were formed as a Delaware corporation on June 20, 2014 for the purpose of engaging in the business of recycling lead through a novel, proprietary and patent-pending process that we developed and named “AquaRefining”. Since our formation, we have focused our efforts on the development and testing of our AquaRefining process, the development of our business plan, the raise of our present working capital and the development of our initial lead acid battery, or LAB, recycling facility in the Tahoe Regional Industrial Center, McCarran, Nevada (“TRIC”).
 
We have completed the development of our first LAB recycling facility at the Tahoe Regional Industrial Center, McCarran, Nevada, or “TRIC,” and commenced production of battery breaking and limited operations during the first quarter of 2017. The TRIC facility will produce recycled lead, consisting of lead compounds, ingoted hard lead and ingoted AquaRefined lead as well as plastic. We commenced the shipment of products for sale, consisting of lead compounds and plastics, in April 2017 and as of the date of this report all revenue has been derived from the sale of lead compounds and plastics. Unless otherwise indicated, the terms “Aqua Metals”, “Company”, “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Aqua Metals, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
All references in this report to “ton” or “tonne” refer to a metric ton, which is equal to approximately 2,204.6 pounds.
 
Since our organization in 2014, we have engaged in several capital raising transactions, the most recent of which are summarized below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - General.”
 
Overview
 
Aqua Metals is seeking to reinvent lead recycling with its patented and patent-pending AquaRefining™ technology. Unlike smelting, AquaRefining is a room temperature, water-based process. It is deployed as a factory built modular system which allows the lead-acid battery industry to simultaneously improve environmental impact and scale production to meet demand. Aqua Metals is based in Alameda, California, and has built its first recycling facility in Nevada’s Tahoe Reno Industrial Complex. Lead is a globally traded commodity with a worldwide market value in excess of $20 billion. Lead acid batteries (LABs) are the primary consumer use of all lead produced in the world. Because the chemical and metallurgical properties of lead allow it to be recycled and reused indefinitely, LABs are also the dominant feed source for lead production across the world. As such, LABs are almost 100% recycled for purposes of capturing the lead contained therein for re-use. We believe that our proprietary AquaRefining process will provide for the recycling of LABs and the production of a high purity lead with fewer environmental and regulatory issues than is possible with conventional methods of lead production.
 
In recent years, recycled lead has become increasingly important to LAB production. Recycled lead surpassed mined lead in the 1990s and now represents more than 60% of the lead content in new LABs. Whether it is produced from lead ore or recycled LABs, lead has historically been produced by smelting. Smelting is a high-temperature, metallurgical/chemical reduction, energy intensive and often a highly polluting process. As a consequence of the environmental and health issues, lead smelting has become increasingly regulated in many countries. In the U.S., regulatory non-compliance has forced the closure of large lead smelters in Vernon, California, Frisco, Texas and Herculaneum, Missouri over the last several years. In response to increasing environmental regulation over the past three decades, there has been an expansion of LAB smelting capacity in Mexico and other less regulated countries. The resulting transportation of used LABs from where they originate in the U.S. to smelters in Mexico, South Korea, the Philippines and elsewhere is an increasingly significant logistical and global environmental cost. 
 
AquaRefining uses a bio-degradable aqueous solvent and a novel ambient temperature electro-chemical process to produce lead suitable for use in LAB production. We believe that AquaRefining can provide a more efficient production process as compared with alternative methods of producing equivalent grades of lead. We also have the potential to locate AquaRefining facilities closer to the source of used LABs, thereby reducing transport costs and supply chain bottlenecks. On this basis, we believe that AquaRefining reduces environmental plant emissions, health concerns and permitting needs compared with lead smelting. We believe that the combined advantages offered by AquaRefining represent a potential step change in lead recycling technology and recovered product quality, one that can deliver advantages in footprint and logistics while reducing the environmental impact of lead recycling.
 
 3



The modular nature of AquaRefining makes it possible both to start LAB recycling at a smaller scale than is possible with a typical smelter setup, and to add AquaRefining to existing battery recycling operations to expand production capacity or to reduce smelting processes. Our plan is to pursue two complementary business streams. The first is to supply AquaRefining and supporting equipment to third parties to supplement or replace smelting in their battery recycling operations. We intend to pursue this at least initially through our relationship with Johnson Controls Inc., with which we have entered exploratory discussions centered on the addition of AquaRefining to one of its existing battery recycling operations. The second is to expand our own lead recycling operations, subject to our receipt of additional capital.
 
Our Markets
 
The Lead Market
 
Lead is a globally traded commodity and is the essential component of over 95% of the world’s rechargeable batteries. Lead is globally traded primarily on the London Metals Exchange, or LME, although the smaller Shanghai Metals Exchange (SHME) also trades the element. Conventionally in the industry, there are two separate groupings of lead: i) primary lead which refers to lead produced at smelters that use mined lead concentrates (generally lead sulfide) as their primary feedstock, and ii) secondary lead which refers to lead smelters utilizing LABs as their main feed source.
 
Originally, the majority of the lead used in batteries was sourced from primary smelters but in recent decades, secondary lead has grown to become the dominate product used. Industry data shows that six million metric tons of lead was produced in 1995 of which approximately 45% was primary and 55% was from secondary sources. Twenty years later, by 2015, global lead production had increased to approximately 11 million metric tons, of which more than 65% was secondary. Importantly, primary lead production had increased only marginally during this period. This marginal increase is because lead-zinc mine deposits are being depleted across the globe in existing mines. As such, an increasing quantity of primary lead is now the predominate byproduct of zinc mining.
 
In 2005, secondary lead traded on the LME in a range of $1,000 to $1,200 per metric ton. During 2017, secondary lead traded in a range of approximately $2,000 to $2,600 per metric ton.
 
As noted above, although lead is traded as a commodity on the LME/SHME, the major sales are the sales directly between producers and users (whom are typically battery manufacturers). The LME daily price is used as the benchmark in forming the basis of physical trades, forward contracts and hedge strategies for both primary and secondary lead. Based on market knowledge with buyers of lead in the U.S. and Global lead markets, different grades (termed alloys) of lead are traded at a premium to the LME price. Lead by-products (lead compounds) can trade at a discount to the LME based on the amount of lead content.

Lead Smelting
 
Currently, smelters produce virtually all the world’s mined and recycled lead. Smelting is an energy intensive and often highly polluting process. At its core, smelting is a high temperature (excess of 1000°C) metallurgical reduction process in which lead compounds are heated and reacted with various reducing agents to remove the oxygen, sulfur, and other impurities. The process leaves behind bullion lead and waste slag. In smelting, depending upon the operation, 0.5% to 5% of the lead is lost in the “slag”, with the resultant lead bullion containing both wanted and unwanted impurities.
 
In addition to the inefficiencies associated with smelting, it can generate large volumes of toxic solid, liquid, particulate and gaseous waste. In developed countries, there is both increased environmental regulation and enforcement of such, including monitoring of permissible blood lead levels in employees and local populations. These regulations and the increasing enforcement have made it more expensive to operate smelters. According to a report titled “Hazardous Trade?” produced by the Secretariat of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation in 2013, this has led to a decline of lead smelters in the U.S., an expansion of smelting operations in Mexico and a resultant increase in the export of used LABs from the U.S. followed by the re-import of recycled lead. This trade is believed to be largely driven by the lower costs related to the less stringent environmental standards and enforcement in Mexico. For the foregoing reasons, we believe that lead smelting facilities are increasingly located in less regulated areas remote from both the source of used LABs and the demand for lead. We believe that the remote location of smelting increases the transport costs to the production of recycled lead.
 
Lead Acid Batteries
 
Although the LAB is one of the earliest battery technologies, in terms of energy capacity deployed and installed manufacturing capacity, it dominates the battery industry today. Historically, the largest market for LABs has been as starter batteries for vehicles. However, with the increasing electrical load on modern vehicles and the adoption of “Stop-Start” conventional 12V “starter batteries”, LABs are evolving into more capable and higher value products. At the same time, large new markets such as Cell Tower, Data Center and Industrial back-up are adding to demand. Consequently, existing LAB production facilities are being expanded and new facilities are being built. 
 
 4



According to CHR Metals, total lead output in 2017 was expected to be 20% higher than it was in 2012. Similar prospects for healthy growth in the lead industry continue to be published and support continued growth in demand for lead for at least the next 20 years. We believe that grid storage and other energy storage applications linked to renewable energy (solar and wind) will also generate increased demand for LABs, where low cost, safety and reliability will make them attractive options.
 
The increase in LAB manufacturing in general and particularly in China, India and Southeast Asia, has increased demand for lead, putting pressure on global recycling networks to meet this demand. At present, we believe that much of the LAB recycling performed outside of the U.S., Canada, the EU, Japan, and Australia is carried out in outdated facilities with poor environmental standards and insufficient enforcement. China, India, Pakistan and South America appear to be moving toward tougher regulation and enforcement. We believe that this will drive a demand in foreign markets for more less polluting LAB recycling processes.
 
AquaRefining Process
 
We developed AquaRefining to be a less expensive, cleaner and modular alternative to smelting. Our process has two key elements, both of which are integral to our issued patents and pending-patent applications. The first is our use of a proprietary, non-toxic solvent that dissolves lead compounds. The second is a proprietary electro-chemical process and electrolyzer that converts the dissolved lead compounds into high purity lead suitable for use in LAB production.
 
Similar to conventional LAB smelter recycling, our AquaRefining process begins with the crushing of used LABs and the separation of the metallic lead, active material (lead compounds), sulfuric acid and plastic for recycling. The active material (lead compounds) are first processed to remove sulfur and then dissolved in our solvent. Lead is then plated from the solvent using our patented and patent-pending process allowing the solvent to be reused.
 
Our AquaRefining process can generate the following outputs:
 

● | Lead and lead-based products, including high purity lead, lead alloys and lead compounds which are primarily intended for the LAB industry. We are also exploring higher value lead based products which may offer performance and life-cycle benefits to the LAB industry; and 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Recovered plastic chips, intended for re-use in the manufacture of battery casings and other recycled plastic products. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
We expect to derive revenue primarily from the sale of lead-based products, with additional revenue derived from the sale of plastic chips.
 
A significant benefit of our AquaRefining process is that it is capable of producing high purity (sometimes called primary grade) lead from secondary sources. Primary grade lead is sold directly to battery companies.
 
Another significant benefit of our process is that we designed our AquaRefining equipment to be manufactured on a purpose-built production line in standard sized modules. This is not possible with the smelting process, as smelters need to be constructed on site. This gives us the ability to provide AquaRefining systems with capacities ranging from four metric tons per day to more than 400 metric tons per day all based on our standard module.
 
Lead recycling is subject to a variety of domestic and international regulations related to hazardous materials, emissions, employee safety and other matters. While our operations will be subject to these regulations, we believe that one of our potential advantages will be our ability to conduct lead recycling operations with less regulatory cost and burden than smelting operators due to the nature of our process. One of our key objectives will be to educate regulators and the public as to the environmental benefits of AquaRefining. We believe that we have the potential to develop a business model that offers the opportunity to conduct, in an environmentally friendly manner, an important recycling activity that historically has been conducted in an often highly polluting manner.
 
Our Business Model
 
Overall, our objective is to progress the lead recycling industry from one which is based primarily on smelting to one which is based on AquaRefining. Our expectation is that this will be a moderately paced process of evolution in which multiple business models will be evaluated. The two business models that we are currently most focused on are:

1) | the supply of AquaRefining and supporting equipment and services to third parties to use in their recycling operations on a licensing model. We are currently focused on exploring this business stream through our relationship with Johnson Controls; 
---+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 5




2) | the expansion of our own AquaRefining capacity and facilities, subject to our receipt of additional capital. 
---+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The market for lead is global in scale but local in nature and execution, with large differences in local regulation, custom and practice. In some regions, it is highly regulated, and in others it is not. Consequently, we are evolving our business model to commercialize our technology optimally across multiple locations.
 
Lead recycling is subject to a variety of domestic and international regulations related to hazardous materials, emissions, employee safety and other matters. While our operations will be subject to these regulations, we believe that one of our potential advantages will be our ability to conduct lead recycling operations with less regulatory cost and burden than smelting operators. One of our key objectives will be to educate regulators and the public as to the environmental benefits of AquaRefining. We believe we have the potential to develop a business model that offers less regulatory cost and burden and the opportunity to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
 
In the U.S. and similarly regulated countries, our plan is to build and operate LAB recycling facilities, both directly and in association with third parties through joint ventures, licensing and direct sales. As an example, on February 7, 2017, we entered into a series of agreements with Johnson Controls Inc., (Johnson Controls), pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed to work with Johnson Controls on the development of a program for the installation of greenfield lead recycling facilities and conversion of Johnson Controls’ and certain strategic partners’ of Johnson Controls existing lead smelters throughout North America, China and Europe to a lead recycling process utilizing our proprietary and patented AquaRefining technology and equipment, know-how and services.
 
Competition
 
At the present time, our primary competition in the production of lead comes from operators of existing smelters and other parties heavily invested in the existing supply chain for smelting. Our approach to this competition is to make AquaRefining available for the conversion of existing smelter-based facilities. However, it is prudent to assume that outside of our strategic relationships, a conversion to AquaRefining may be resisted by some of the incumbent lead producers. Competition in the supply of lead from such incumbents may come in the form of price competition for lead produced. However, to the extent we are successful in being a producer of high quality lead without the regulatory costs or burden associated with smelting, we should be able to compete effectively with smelting as the preferred method of recycling lead, at least in the more regulated jurisdictions.
 
Another area where incumbents may seek to compete is in controlling access to used LABs. The market for used LABs is made up of the members of the LAB reverse supply chains, including auto repair shops, auto parts stores and auto dealers, LAB manufacturers who operate their own smelting operations and third parties who engage in the purchase and sale of used LABs. We believe that some LAB manufacturers who maintain their own smelting operations may feel threatened by our AquaRefining process. Such parties may attempt to restrict our access to used LABs. We have assumed at least some level of interference by incumbents, however, based on our operations to date, including our discussions and arrangements with certain suppliers of used LABs, we do not view access to used LABs be a significant risk to our LAB recycling operations.
 
Our business plan is not dependent on the acceptance of our process by lead smelters. We still intend to initially focus on operating our own AquaRefining facilities directly and working with Johnson Controls to implement Aqua Refining in a nominated lead smelting facility followed by deployments with additional 3rd parties to propagate AquaRefining as the technology of choice for recycling LABs.
 
We do not expect to experience significant competition in connection with our sale of lead. We believe that the market for lead is established, fluid and effective; and like the markets for other natural resources, such as oil, gas, gold, silver, etc., we do not expect to encounter any issues, conditions or qualifications for the sale of our lead production at prevailing market prices set by the LME. The vertically integrated LAB manufacturers who conduct smelting operations also are buyers of lead from third parties. We believe that they will still purchase lead from us if we are able to offer it at the market price.
 
Our First Recycling Facility: McCarran, Nevada
 
In May 2015, we purchased 11.73 acres of undeveloped land in the Tahoe Reno Industrial Center (TRIC), at McCarran, Nevada where we subsequently built a 136,750 square foot LAB recycling facility.
 
The building phase was completed by August 2016, at which time we started installing and commissioning equipment. We installed and commissioned the first production AquaRefining module in October 2016 and produced our first lead ingot using electrolyte we produced on-site using materials supplied by a 3rd party, which were recovered from recycled batteries. We verified that the lead we produced by this method was over 99.99 percent pure.
 
 6



We commenced initial battery breaking during December 2016 and progressed to regular single shift operation of the battery breaker in January 2017. From late 2016 through the date of this report, we implemented a number of upgrades to the facility, the battery breaking and separation processes and other more conventional aspects of our process.
 
By December 2017, we had installed 16 AquaRefining modules. However, we encountered an issue which required the retrofitting of all 16 modules. As of the date of this report, we expect to complete the retrofit of all 16 modules by late March or early April and to begin to bring all 16 modules into commercial operation. However, due to the delays and unforeseen issues in the completion of the AquaRefining production line we have experienced to date, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter additional delays and issues. During 2018, we expect to continue to invest in further expanding our capability and capacity at our Nevada facility, including additional AquaRefining modules, subject to our receipt of additional capital.
 
Supply, Off-Take and Other Strategic Agreements 
 
In support of our first facility, we have entered into a series of agreements and relationships providing for our supply of LABs and the off-take of the recycled lead we produce. As described in more detail below, Interstate Battery has agreed to supply us with LABs pursuant to a written agreement entered into in May 2016. In addition, we have established an important relationship Battery Systems. Inc., an independent LAB distributor with a distribution facility located next to our TRIC facility, for Battery Systems’ supply of used LABS to us. We have also entered into an agreement with Johnson Controls pursuant to which Johnson Controls has agreed to purchase from us, recycled lead on both a tolling (fee to convert used LABs to recycled materials) and merchanting (sale of recycled materials) basis. Consequently, we believe that we have secured an ample supply of used LABs and demand for our lead-based products for the foreseeable future. In addition, we entered into a separate agreement with Johnson Controls pursuant to which we agreed to work with Johnson Controls on the development of a program for the installation of new greenfield builds and conversion of Johnson Controls and certain strategic partners of Johnson Controls existing lead smelters throughout North America, China and Europe to a lead recycling process utilizing our proprietary and patent-pending AquaRefining technology and equipment, know-how and services.
Johnson Controls Agreements
 
Equipment Supply Agreement. We entered into an equipment supply agreement dated February 7, 2017 with Johnson Controls pursuant to which we agreed to collaborate on the development of a program for the installation of new greenfield builds and conversion of existing Johnson Controls and certain strategic partners of Johnson Controls’ existing lead smelters to a lead recycling process utilizing our proprietary and patent-pending AquaRefining technology and equipment, know-how and services. We have agreed with Johnson Controls to develop an appropriate program blueprint, and enter into a definitive development program agreement reflecting that blueprint, pursuant to which we will provide to Johnson Controls and certain strategic partners of Johnson Controls, by way of licensing or sale, the following products and services in the regions of North America, Europe and China:

● | AquaRefining technology and the related equipment, engineering and systems integration support sufficient to convert or retrofit existing smelter-based operations and/or the construction of new Johnson Controls and Johnson Controls’ strategic partners’ battery recycling facilities based on our AquaRefining technology; 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Training, evaluation and certification of Johnson Controls’ operations personnel sufficient for such personnel to competently operate our AquaRefining technology and equipment; and 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Ongoing technical support, maintenance services and warranties. 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
We plan to provide the above services and equipment to Johnson Controls on a serviced license basis, including Johnson Controls’ ongoing licensing fees payable to us based on the operational capacity of the AquaRefining equipment supplied by us. We have agreed not to license our AquaRefining technology and equipment to third parties in the aforementioned regions until such as we and Johnson Controls have agreed on certain matters relating to the initial conversion of a Johnson Controls facility. Johnson Controls and we have agreed to use good faith, commercial best-efforts to conclude the discussion and negotiation of the development program agreement no later than April 30, 2018, and to enter into a definitive development program agreement no later than June 30, 2018. The equipment supply agreement may be terminated by either party upon 60 days’ prior written notice if the parties have not entered into the development program agreement by June 30, 2018, of which there can be no assurance. The equipment supply agreement allows each party the right to seek early termination based on a material breach by the other party that goes uncorrected for 30 days following notice of breach. The equipment supply agreement contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary to commercial agreements of this nature.
 
 7



Tolling/Lead Purchase Agreement. We have entered into a tolling/lead purchase agreement dated February 7, 2017 with Johnson Controls pursuant to which we have agreed to sell to Johnson Controls, and Johnson Controls has agreed to purchase from us, recycled lead on both a tolling (fee to convert used LABs to recycled materials) and merchanting (sale of recycled materials) basis.
 
Pursuant to the agreement, Johnson Controls has agreed to purchase from us, and we have agreed to sell to Johnson Controls, up to 100% of the recycled lead we produce for automotive applications, other than by way of tolling arrangements, on a monthly basis, unless we receive notice from Johnson Controls six months advance of its intention to purchase less than 100% of our output in any given month. Our agreement with Johnson Controls excludes, and we are free to manufacture and sell to third parties, recycled lead for non-automotive uses, such as stationery batteries for back-up power systems for Internet/Cloud applications or grid scale storage applications.
 
We have also agreed to provide tolling services to Johnson Controls whereby Johnson Controls will deliver to us used lead acid batteries, or LABs, and we will recycle the used LABs and return the recycled lead to Johnson Controls for a fee. Johnson Controls has agreed to send to us for tolling, and we have agreed to toll for Johnson Controls, used LABs representing a significant allocation of the production capacity of our initial recycling facility in McCarran, Nevada. During fiscal year 2017, the vast majority of revenues were derived from Johnson Controls.
 
The tolling/lead purchase agreement has a minimum term of five years and upon the expiration of the initial term the agreement, either party can terminate the agreement upon three years prior written notice. Either party may elect to terminate the agreement for any reason after the second anniversary of the agreement, which termination shall be effective on the third anniversary of the notice of termination. Either party may terminate the agreement on ten days’ prior written notice of breach that goes uncorrected during the notice period. The tolling/lead purchase agreement contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary to commercial agreements of this nature.
 
Interstate Battery Partnership
 
On May 18, 2016, we entered into a supply agreement with Interstate Battery pursuant to which Interstate Battery agreed to sell to us, and we agreed to buy from Interstate Battery, used LABs. Interstate Battery will sell us used LABs on a cost-plus basis and the agreement subjects us and Interstate Battery to certain minimum purchase and sale requirements. We have granted Interstate Battery limited rights of first refusal to supply our future AquaRefineries. Our agreement with Interstate Battery is for an initial term of 18 months from the date of first delivery of used LABs to us and will be subject to automatic renewals thereafter unless either party elects to terminate the agreement. The agreement allows each party the right to seek early termination based on certain commercial contingencies. The supply agreement contains representations, warranties and indemnities that are customary to commercial agreements of this nature.
Intellectual Property Rights
 
We regard the protection of our technologies and intellectual property rights as an important element of our business operations and crucial to our success. We endeavor to generate and protect our intellectual property assets through a series of patents, trademarks, internal and external policy and procedures and contractual provisions.
Patent Portfolio 
 
Currently, we have six granted/allowed patents consisting of one each in the U.S. (9837689), Canada (2930945), South Africa (2016-04083), Korea (101739414), Japan (6173595) and Australia (2014353227). The claims of the granted patents substantially address the same subject matter and are drawn to various aspects of processing lead materials using an aqua refining process. Differences in the claim number and scope are due to local rules and practice. We have multiple filed patent applications organized in more than five patent families, in up to 20 countries and patent territories.
 
We intend to continue to prepare and file domestic and foreign patent applications covering expanding aspects and applications of our technology, as circumstances warrant.
 
There can be no assurance that any patents will issue from any of our current or any future applications. Also, any patents that may issue may not survive a legal challenge to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us. Competitors may work around our patents so they are not infringing. Our patent portfolio and our existing policy and procedures safeguarding our trade secrets nonetheless may face challenges so that our competitors can copy our AquaRefining process.
 
 8



Trademark Portfolio
 
We have filed for trademark registration in the US and foreign countries for the following trademarks:


● | AQUA METALS (US and 15 foreign countries) 
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | AQUAREFINING (US and 11 foreign countries) 
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | AQUAREFINE (US only) 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------

Trade Secrets and Contract Protection
 
We have developed our internal policy and procedures in safeguarding our trade secrets and proprietary information. Our procedures generally require our employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except under specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology that is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is our exclusive property. The development of our technology and many of our processes are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key scientific and technical personnel.
Government Regulation
 
Our operations in the United States will be subject to the Federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws applicable to the reclamation of LABs. While the lead reclamation process itself is generally not subject to Federal permitting requirements, depending on how any particular operation is structured, our facilities may have to obtain environmental permits or approvals from Federal, state or local regulators to operate, including permits or regulatory approvals related to air emissions, water discharges, waste management, and the storage of LABs on-site should that become necessary. We may face opposition from local residents or public interest groups to the installation and operation of our facilities. Failure to secure (or significant delays in securing) the necessary approvals could prevent us from pursuing some of our planned operations and adversely affect our business, financial results and growth prospects.
 
In addition to permitting requirements, our operations are subject to environmental health, safety and transportation laws and regulations that govern the management of and exposure to hazardous materials such as the lead and acids involved in LAB reclamation. These include hazard communication and other occupational safety requirements for employees, which may mandate industrial hygiene monitoring of employees for potential exposure to lead. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject our business to significant penalties (civil or criminal) and other sanctions that could adversely affect our business. Changes to these regulatory requirements in the future could also increase our costs, require changes in or cessation of certain activities, and adversely affect the business.
 
The nature of our operations involves risks, including the potential for exposure to hazardous materials such as lead, that could result in personal injury and property damage claims from third parties, including employees and neighbors, which claims could result in significant costs or other environmental liability. Our operations also pose a risk of releases of hazardous substances, such as lead or acids, into the environment, which can result in liabilities for the removal or remediation of such hazardous substances from the properties at which they have been released, liabilities which can be imposed regardless of fault, and our business could be held liable for the entire cost of cleanup even if we were only partially responsible. Like any manufacturer, we are also subject to the possibility that we may receive notices of potential liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment, and/or disposal facilities under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), and comparable state statutes, which impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination, and for damages to natural resources. Liability under CERCLA is retroactive, and, under certain circumstances, liability for the entire cost of a cleanup can be imposed on any responsible party.
 
As our business expands outside of the United States, our operations will be subject to the environmental, health and safety laws of the countries where we do business, including permitting and compliance requirements that address the similar risks as do the laws in the United States, as well as international legal requirements such as those applicable to the transportation of hazardous materials. Depending on the country or region, these laws could be as stringent as those in the US, or they could be less stringent or not as strictly enforced. In some countries in which we are interested in expanding our business, such as Mexico and China, the relevant environmental regulatory and enforcement frameworks are in flux and subject to change. Therefore, while compliance with these requirements will cause our business to incur costs, and failure to comply with these requirements could adversely affect our business, it is difficult to evaluate such potential costs or adverse impacts until such time as we decide to initiate operations in particular countries outside the United States.
 
 9



Employees
 
As of the date of this report, we employ 69 people on a full-time basis. None of our employees are represented by a labor union.
 
Financial and Segment Information
 
We operate our business as a single segment, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial information is included in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.
Available Information
 
Our website is located at www.aquametals.com and our investor relations website is located at www. investors.aquametals.com/. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
 
 10



