Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1 | BUSINESS
-------+---------

 
(All currency is rounded to the nearest thousands, except share and per share amounts.) 
 
Our Company
 
Creative Realities, Inc. is a Minnesota corporation that provides innovative digital marketing technology and solutions to retail companies, individual retail brands, enterprises and other organizations throughout the United States and in certain international markets. We have expertise in a broad range of existing and emerging digital marketing technologies, as well as the related media management and distribution software platforms and networks, device management, product management, customized software service layers, systems, experiences, workflows, and integrated solutions. Our technology and solutions include: digital merchandising systems; omni-channel customer engagement systems, interactive digital shopping assistants, advisors and kiosks, and other interactive marketing technologies such as mobile, social media, point-of-sale transactions, beaconing and web-based media that enable our customers to transform how they engage with consumers. We have expertise in a broad range of existing and emerging digital marketing technologies, as well as the following related aspects of our business: content, network management, and connected device software and firmware platforms; customized software service layers; hardware platforms; digital media workflows; and proprietary processes and automation tools. We believe we are one of the world’s leading interactive marketing technology companies that focuses on the retail shopper experience by helping retailers and brands use the latest technologies to create better shopping experiences.
 
Our main operations are conducted directly through Creative Realities, Inc., and under our wholly owned subsidiaries Wireless Ronin Technologies Canada, Inc., and ConeXus World Global, LLC, a Kentucky limited liability company.
 
We seek to generate revenue in this business by:
 

● | consulting with our customers to determine the technologies and solutions required to achieve their specific goals, strategies and objectives; 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | designing our customers’ digital marketing experiences, content and interfaces; 
● | engineering the systems architecture delivering the digital marketing experiences we design – both software and hardware – and integrating those systems into a customized, reliable and effective digital marketing experience; 
● | managing the efficient, timely and cost-effective deployment of our digital marketing technology solutions for our customers; 
● | delivering and updating the content of our digital marketing technology solutions using a suite of advanced media, content and network management software products; and 
● | maintaining our customers’ digital marketing technology solutions by: providing content production and related services; creating additional software-based features and functionality; hosting the solutions; monitoring solution service levels; and responding to and/or managing remote or onsite field service maintenance, troubleshooting and support calls. 

 
We seek to generate revenue through these activities through: bundled-solution sales; service fees for consulting, experience design, content development and production, software development, engineering, implementation, and field services; software license fees; and maintenance and support services related to our software, managed systems and solutions.
 
1

 

Our digital marketing technology and solutions are deployed in and have application across diverse categories: automotive, apparel and accessories, banking, baby/children, beauty, consumer products, department stores, electronics, fashion, fitness, foodservice/quick service restaurants, financial services, gaming, luxury retail, mass merchants, mobile operators, and pharmacy retail. The industries in which we sell our solutions are established, but the planning, development, implementation and maintenance of technology-enabled experiences involving combinations of digital marketing technologies is relatively new and evolving. Moreover, a number of participants in these industries have only recently started considering or expanding the adoption of these types of technologies, solutions and experiences as part of their overall marketing strategies. As a result, we remain an early stage company without an established history of profitability.
 
We believe that the adoption and evolution of digital marketing technology and solutions will increase substantially in years to come both in the industries or categories on which we currently focus and in others. We also believe that adoption of our technology and solutions depends upon not only the services and solutions that we provide, but also depends heavily upon the cost of hardware used to process and display content on them. While the costs of hardware configurations and software media players have historically decreased and we believe they will continue to do so at an accelerating rate, flat panel displays typically constitute a large portion of the expenditure customers make relative to the entire cost of implementing a digital marketing system and can be a barrier to customer deployment. As a result, we believe that the broader adoption of digital marketing technology solutions is likely to increase, although we cannot predict the rate at which such adoption will occur.
 
Another key component of our business strategy, especially given the evolving industry dynamics in which we operate, is to acquire and integrate other operating companies in the industry in conjunction with pursuing our organic growth objectives. We believe that the selective acquisition and successful integration of certain companies will accelerate our growth; enable us to aggregate multiple customer bases onto a single business and technology platform; provide us with greater operating scale; enable us to leverage a common set of processes, tools, and cost efficiencies; and ultimately result in higher operating profitability and cash flow from operations. Our management team is actively pursuing and evaluating alternative acquisition opportunities on an ongoing basis. Our management team and Board of Directors have broad experience with the execution, integration and financing of acquisitions. We believe that, based on the foregoing and other factors, the Company can successfully serve as a consolidator of multiple business and technology platforms serving similar markets.
 
We currently market and sell our technology and solutions primarily through our sales and business development personnel throughout North America, but we also utilize agents, strategic partners, and lead generators who provide us with access to additional sales, business development and licensing opportunities.
 
We currently operate in one reportable segment, marketing technology solutions. Substantially all property and equipment is located at our offices in the United States, and a data center located in the United States. All sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, were in the United States and Canada.
 
You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The website of the SEC is www.sec.gov. Additional information about the Company and its public disclosures is available on our website at www.cri.com.
 
Corporate Organization
 
Our principal offices are located at 13100 Magisterial Drive, Ste 100, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, and our telephone number at that office is (502) 791-8800.
 
The legal entity that is the registrant was originally incorporated and organized as a Minnesota corporation under the name Wireless Ronin Technologies, Inc. in March 2003. Our business initially focused on the provision of expertise digital media marketing solutions to customers, including digital signage, interactive kiosks, mobile, social media and web-based media solutions. We acquired the assets and business of Broadcast International, Inc., a Utah corporation and public registrant, through a merger transaction that was effective as of August 1, 2014. Then on August 20, 2014, we consummated a merger transaction with Creative Realities, LLC, a privately owned Delaware limited liability company, in which we issued a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In that merger transaction, we acquired the interactive marketing technology business of Creative Realities that we currently operate. Shortly after that merger, we changed our corporate name from “Wireless Ronin Technologies, Inc.” to “Creative Realities, Inc.” On October 15, 2015, we acquired the assets and business of ConeXus World Global, LLC, a privately owned Kentucky limited liability company for which we issued preferred and common stock. In that merger transaction, we acquired the systems integration and marketing technology business of ConeXus World that we currently operate. On May 23, 2016, we dissolved Broadcast International, Inc. 
 
2

 

Our fiscal year ends December 31. Neither we nor any of our predecessors have been in bankruptcy, receivership or any similar proceeding. Our corporate structure, including our principal operating subsidiaries, is as follows:
 


Recent Acquisitions
 
Acquisition of ConeXus World Global
 
There were no acquisitions completed during the years-ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. On October 15, 2015, we completed the acquisition of ConeXus World Global, LLC for 2,080,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, and the conversion of $823 of ConeXus World Global debt into (i) 2,639,258 shares of our common stock, and (ii) $150 in principal amount of our convertible debt.
 
In accordance with the terms of the agreement and plan of merger and reorganization, an additional 416,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and 4,000,000 shares of common stock were to be issued upon the reorganization of the capital structure of a Belgian affiliate of ConeXus (the “Holdback Shares”). Since the passage of the March 31, 2016 date targeted for the completion of the reorganization of the Belgian affiliate, the parties have determined that the value of the Belgian affiliate was de minimis.
 
An agreement was reached on September 1, 2017 by Creative Realities, Inc. and the prior shareholders of ConeXus to recognize the value obtained by Creative Realities, Inc. as a result of the merger and to issue the Holdback Shares to the prior shareholders of ConeXus.  Creative Realities, Inc. has waived the contingency relating to the issuance of the Holdback Shares and issued to the shareholders 5,631,373 shares of common stock. 3,198,054 of these shares were issued to Rick Mills, a majority shareholder of ConeXus, a related party, and the CEO of Creative Realities, Inc. Since the measurement period for the business combination has expired, the issuance of the shares is recognized as a charge to operations during the year of $1.9 million. 
 
As used throughout this report, the “Company” generally refers to the registrant (Creative Realities, Inc., formerly known as Wireless Ronin Technologies, Inc.), unless the context otherwise indicates or requires. Use of the first person “we” refers to the Company or, if the context so requires, to the historical business of Creative Realities or the registrant itself, in each case prior to the consummation of the August 20, 2014 merger transaction.
 
3

 

Common Stock
 
 In 2017 and 2016 the following Preferred Stock conversions took place:
 

Convertible Preferred Stock Conversions
---------------------------------------
 | Number of Convertible Preferred Series A | | Number of Convertible Preferred Series A-1 | | Shares of Common Stock Received
Q4 2017 | | - | | - | | - 
Q3 2017 | | 132,200 | | 1,860,561 | | 7,814,749
Q2 2017 | | 12,750 | | - | | 50,000 
Q1 2017 | | 240,250 | | - | | 942,157 
Q4 2016 | | 132,000 | | - | | 517,647 
Q3 2016 | | 75,500 | | - | | 296,078 
Q2 2016 | | - | | - | | - 
Q1 2016 | | 100,000 | | - | | 392,157 



In 2016, in conjunction with the structured settlement program, the Company issued 409,347 shares of its restricted common stock to creditors and 809,842 shares of stock were issued to investors.
 
The Company and the investors entered into registration rights agreements requiring Creative Realities to register under the Securities Act of 1933 the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the secured notes and upon exercise of the warrants. The Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1/A on May 13, 2016 registering 23,272,184 shares of common stock and that registration statement became effective on June 1, 2016.


Preferred Stock 
 
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding 5,833,549 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and 0 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock.


4

 

The preferred stock entitles its holders to a 6% dividend, payable semi-annually in cash or in kind through the three-year anniversary of the original issue date, and from and after such three-year anniversary in duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of common stock. The three-year anniversary of the initial investment date occurred during the second half of 2017 for $5.2 million of the $5.5 million originally issued Convertible Preferred Stock and therefore dividends on those investments were paid via issuance of common shares as of the year-end date.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, the Company issued an aggregate of 245,816 and 452,224 shares of preferred stock in satisfaction of its semi-annual dividend obligation. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively, the Company issued an aggregate of 718,840 and 0 shares of common stock in satisfaction of its semi-annual dividend obligation. 
 
The preferred stock may be converted into our common stock at the option of a holder at an initial conversion price as adjusted of $0.255 per share. Subject to certain conditions, we may call and redeem the preferred stock after three years. During such time as a majority of the preferred stock sold remains outstanding, holders will have the right to elect a member to our Board of Directors. The preferred stock has full-ratchet price protection in the event that we issue common stock below the conversion price, as adjusted, subject to certain customary exceptions. The warrants issued to purchasers of the preferred stock contain weighted-average price protection in the event that we issue common stock below the exercise price, as adjusted, again subject to certain customary exceptions. In the Securities Purchase Agreement, we granted purchasers of the preferred stock certain registration rights pertaining to the common shares they may receive upon conversion of their preferred stock and upon exercise of their warrants.
 
In 2017, 385,200 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,860,561 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into 8,806,906 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of $0.255 per share.
 
In 2016, 307,500 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 1,205,882 shares of common stock at the conversion rate of $0.255 per share. 
 
Changes in Management and Board of Directors
 
During 2017, the Company transitioned the finance and accounting function from Fairfield, NJ to the corporate headquarters in Louisville, KY which included hiring a new VP of Finance. There were no changes in the Board of Directors. 
 
On May 2, 2016, Eric J. Bertrand was appointed to the Board of Directors of Creative Realities, Inc.  Mr. Bertrand possesses voting and investment power over shares beneficially held by Lincoln Road Media Partners LLC, which was the holder of a convertible promissory note and is the holder of a warrant issued in a private placement transaction on April 14, 2016.  See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Mr. Bertrand was appointed to the board in connection with Lincoln Road Media’s investment in the convertible note and warrant. 
 
Business Strategy
 
We believe that our existing business model is highly scalable and can be expanded successfully as we continue to grow organically and integrate our recent merger transactions, strengthen our operational practices and procedures, further streamline our administrative office functions, and continue to capitalize on various marketing programs and activities.
 
5

 

Industry Background
 
Over the past 18-24 months, approximately, we believe certain digital marketing technology industry trends are creating the opportunity for retailers, brands, venue-operators, enterprises, non-profits and other organizations to create innovative shopping, marketing, and informational experiences for their customers and other stakeholders in various venues worldwide. These trends include: (i) the expectations of technology-savvy consumers; (ii) addressing on-line competitors by improving physical experiences (iii) accelerating decline in the cost of hardware configurations (primarily flat panel displays) and software media players; (ii) the continued evolution of mobile, social, software and hardware technologies, applications and tools; (iii) the increasing sophistication of social networking platforms; (iv) increasingly complex customer requirements related to their specific digital marketing technology and solution objectives; and (v) customers challenging service providers with the delivery of a satisfactory consumer experience with the traditional pressure on reducing installation and ongoing operating costs.
 
As a result, a growing number of retailers, brands, venue-operators and other organizations have identified the need and opportunity to implement increasingly cost-effective and “sales-lifting” digital marketing, and interactive experiences to market to their customers. These include creating unique and customized experiences for targeted, timely offerings and relevant promotions; improving engagement resulting in increased sales; and increasing shopping basket size. We believe our clients consider capitalizing on these industry trends to be increasingly critical to any successful “store of the future” retail and brand sales environment, especially where sales staff turnover is high, training outcomes are inconsistent and product knowledge is low.
 
Companies are accomplishing their strategies by implementing various digital marketing technology solutions, which: are implemented in multiple forms and types of configurations and locations; attempt to achieve any of a broad range of individual or combination of objectives; contain various levels of targeting; have the ability to instantly manage single or multiple locations remotely from a customer’s desktop or other connected device at each location; and are built to deliver or contain a standard or customized experience unique to and within the customer’s environment. Examples of such solutions include:
 

● | Digital Merchandising Systems, which aim to inform and interact with customers through various types of content in an integrated experience, improve in-store customer experiences and increase overall sales, upsells, and/or cross-sales; 
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Digital Sales Assistants, which aim to replace or augment existing sales resources and the level of interactive and informational sales assistance inside the store; 
● | Digital Way-Finders, which aim to help customers navigate their way around individual retail stores and multi-store locations or venues, or within individual brand categories; 
● | Digital Kiosks, which aim to provide data, specialized and customized broadcasts, promotional information and coupons, train, and other forms of information and interaction with customers in a variety of deployment forms, types, configurations and experiences; 
● | Digital Menu-Board Systems, which aim to enable various types of restaurant operators the ability to remotely and on a scheduled basis, update and modify menu information, promotions, and other forms of content dynamically; 
● | Dynamic Digital Signage which aims to deliver and manage in-store marketing and advertising campaigns, specialized and customized broadcasts, and various other forms of messaging targeting customers in a particular experience or environment. 

Our Markets
 
We currently market and sell our marketing technology solutions through our direct sales force and word-of-mouth referrals from existing customers. Select strategic partnerships and lead generation programs also drive business to the Company through targeted business development initiatives. We market to companies that seek digital marketing solutions across multiple connected devices and who specifically seek or could benefit from enhancements to the customer experience offered in their stores, venues, brands or organizations.
 
6

 

Our digital marketing technology solutions have application in a wide variety of industries. The industries in which we sell our solutions are established and include hospitality, branded retail, automotive, food service and retail healthcare, but the planning, development, implementation and maintenance of technology-enabled experiences is relatively new and evolving.  Moreover, a number of participants in these industries have only recently started considering or expanding the adoption of these types of technologies, solutions and experiences as part of their overall marketing strategies.
 
Seasonality
 
A portion of our customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects related to traditional end of calendar year peak retail sales periods and other factors that arise from our target customer base. Nevertheless, our revenues can be materially affected by the launch of new markets, the timing of production rollouts, and other factors, any of which have the ability to reduce or outweigh certain seasonal effects.
Effect of General Economic Conditions on our Business
 
We believe that demand for our services will increase in part as a result of recovering retail-related real estate investments and new construction and the recent economic recovery in general. These general economic improvements generally make it easier for our customers to justify decisions to invest in digital marketing technology solutions.
Regulation
 
We are subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, the consumer protection laws of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, and environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Some of the hardware components that we supply to customers may contain hazardous or regulated substances, such as lead. A number of U.S. states have adopted or are considering “takeback” bills addressing the disposal of electronic waste, including CRT style and flat panel monitors and computers. Electronic waste legislation is developing. Some of the bills passed or under consideration may impose on us, or on our customers or suppliers, requirements for disposal of systems we sell and the payment of additional fees to pay costs of disposal and recycling. Presently, we do not believe that any such legislation or proposed legislation will have a materially adverse impact on our business.
Competition 
While we believe there is presently no direct competitor with the comprehensive offering of technologies, solutions and services we provide to our customers, there are multiple individual competitors who offer pieces of our solution stack. These include digital signage software companies such as Stratacache, Four Winds Interactive, and Reflect Systems; marketing services companies such as Sapient Nitro or digital signage systems integrators such as Convergent. Some of these competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do and may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. We believe that our sales and business development capabilities, network operations / field service management capabilities, our comprehensive offering of digital marketing technology and solutions, brand awareness, and proprietary processes are the primary factors affecting our competitive position.
Territories
 
Our Company sells products and services primarily throughout North America.
 
Employees
 
We have approximately 100 employees as of December 31, 2017. We do not have any employees that operate under collective-bargaining agreements.
 
7

 

