Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1 — BUSINESS
Overview
Energy Recovery, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “Company,” “Energy Recovery,” “our,” “us,” and “we”) is an energy solutions provider to industrial fluid flow markets worldwide. Our core competencies are fluid dynamics and advanced material science. Our products make industrial processes more operational and capital expenditure efficient. Our solutions convert wasted pressure energy into a reusable asset and preserve or eliminate pumping technology in hostile processing environments. Our solutions are marketed and sold in fluid flow markets, such as water desalination, oil & gas, and chemical processing, under the trademarks ERI®, PX®, Pressure Exchanger®, PX Pressure Exchanger®, AT™, AquaBold™, VorTeq™, MTeq™, IsoBoost®, and IsoGen®. Our solutions are owned, manufactured, and/or developed, in whole or in part, in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and the Republic of Ireland (“Ireland”). Energy Recovery was incorporated in Virginia in 1992, reincorporated in Delaware in 2001, and became a public company in July 2008.
Markets
Our primary industrial fluid flow markets are water and oil & gas. We are a technology leader for energy recovery devices (“ERDs”) in the water market with our proprietary Pressure Exchanger (“PX”) and turbocharger technologies. We also manufacture high-performance and high-efficiency pumps to provide a packaged solution for our water market customers. Building on our technology, we have expanded our technology solutions offerings into fluid flow applications in the oil & gas market, and are exploring other end markets for which our solutions may be applicable. In the oil & gas market, we offer our VorTeq hydraulic fracturing system (“VorTeq”), and our MTeq mud pumping system (“MTeq”), each of which utilizes our PX technology, as well as our IsoBoost and IsoGen systems, which utilize our turbocharger technology.
Water
Population and economic growth in regions such as the Middle East, Africa, and Asia are driving water demand for human, agricultural, and industrial use. Apart from seasonal variations, the supply of fresh water remains fixed and cannot keep pace with this growing demand. Desalination of seawater, brackish and wastewater into freshwater offers a solution to water needs around the world. In many parts of the world, desalination contributes significantly to the freshwater supply. However, highly pressurized fluid flows are generally required in the desalination process to generate fresh water. These pressurized fluid flows are both a necessity and liability to the water industry. High rates of flow and high-pressure differentials lead to pressure energy becoming a waste product thereby driving excessive energy usage and cost. Water desalination operators seek ways to reduce these costs and improve overall productivity.
Seawater, brackish, and wastewater reverse osmosis desalination have been our core markets for revenue generation to date. Because of the geographical location of many significant water desalination projects, geopolitical and economic events can influence the timing of expected projects. We anticipate that markets traditionally not associated with desalination, including the U.S., will inevitably develop and provide further revenue growth opportunities. The water market ranges from small desalination plants such as those used in cruise ships and resorts, to mega-project desalination plant deployments globally.
Energy Recovery Devices, PX and turbocharger ERD solutions for desalination application: The costs to desalinate and purify water are high, as plants are expensive to build and operate, with energy costs being a major expense driver. Plant operators strive to design and build the most cost-efficient plants possible. As a result, plant operators implement technologies to reduce the energy required to produce desalinated water while maximizing plant reliability and uptime.
High Efficiency Pumps, High-pressure feed and high-pressure circulation pumps:  In addition to ERD solutions, the desalination of water requires specialized high pressure feed and circulation pumps. These devices in combination with ERDs must efficiently pressurize and circulate feedwater to the membranes to purify water. Plant operators require specialized pumps with performance matched to the requirements of the membranes and ERDs. To minimize plant costs these pumps must provide high energy efficiency and reliability with low maintenance requirements. 
– 5 –

Greenfield
The greenfield market typically represents newly constructed seawater reverse osmosis desalination projects. These facilities vary in size, scope and geography. Typically, greenfield projects are public in nature and involve a formal tendering process. Prior to project award, we work directly with the project bidders and upon award our normal sales process ensues. The greenfield market has been the key market for our water business. This market is highly competitive and the tendering process pays close attention to the cost to desalinate water (i.e., dollars per cubic meter of water produced). 
Retrofit
The retrofit market represents existing water facilities that are currently in operation utilizing legacy technologies. These facilities and their owners not only encounter issues with low-efficiency legacy technologies, but also encounter capital expenditure and “know-how” issues that may prevent them from retrofitting plants. Typical retrofits include improvements to existing operations and equipment upgrades. We leverage our best-in-class solutions to unseat existing technology by implementing water production efficiency measures to reduce overall power consumed, repairs and maintenance costs and avoid costly capital upgrades, as well as increase throughput or enhance revenue. These retrofit opportunities may or may not have a formal tendering process. We typically approach the owners and / or end-users of these facilities to present our value-proposition. 
Service & Aftermarket
The service & aftermarket market is comprised of existing water facilities that have our solutions installed and/or in operation. We provide spare and repaired components, field services and various commissioning activities to our customer base. We leverage our water expertise in supporting our existing installed base to ensure that our solutions are being operated effectively. Readily available aftermarket products and services are required by our industry partners and customers in order maximize plant availability and profits.
Oil & Gas
Across oil & gas markets, highly pressurized fluid flows are required to extract and process hydrocarbons. These pressurized fluid flows are both a necessity and liability to the oil & gas industry. High rates of flow, high pressure differentials and hostile (e.g., corrosive, erosive or abrasive) fluids lead to rapid degradation of expensive pressure pumping equipment. In addition, pressure energy becomes a waste product at various stages of oil and gas processing thereby driving excessive energy usage and cost. Oil & gas operators seek ways to reduce these costs and improve overall productivity. 
Upstream Sector
In the upstream sector, high rates of flow, high pressure differentials and hostile (e.g., corrosive, erosive or abrasive) fluids lead to rapid degradation of expensive pressure pumping equipment, as well as costly repairs and maintenance, excessive downtime and significant excess capacity requirements. We offer a solution to minimize these costs by pressurizing hostile fluids in our proprietary PX technology, thereby only running clean fluids through the pumping equipment. 
VorTeq, a PX solution for hydraulic fracturing applications: Hydraulic fracturing is a well-stimulation technique in which pressurized liquid containing a highly abrasive, proppant-laden fluid is injected into a wellbore. Oilfield service (“OFS”) providers utilize high-pressure hydraulic fracturing pumps (commonly referred to as “frac-pumps”) to pressurize fracturing fluid (commonly referred to as “frac-fluid”) at treating pressures up to 15,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”). This frac-fluid is sent from the frac-pumps through traditional missile manifolds into the wellbore to create cracks in the deep-rock formations thereby permitting oil and gas extraction. These frac-pumps are routinely destroyed by the abrasive frac-fluids used during the hydraulic fracturing process causing significant OFS operator costs associated with excessive downtime, repairs, maintenance, and capital equipment redundancy. OFS operators have long sought ways to ruggedize or extend the life of pumps thereby reducing costs. Further, many OFS operators have long sought the means to isolate their high-pressure frac-pumps from abrasive frac-fluid thereby enabling OFS operators to realize immediate and long-term savings in the form of reduced downtime, repairs and maintenance costs and capital equipment redundancy.
– 6 –

MTeq, a PX solution for mud pumping applications: During mud pumping, a drilling fluid (commonly referred to as “drilling mud”) is circulated from a mud pit through the wellbore utilizing high-pressure mud pumps, which pressure the drilling mud at treating pressures up to 7,500 psi, to remove cuttings, control formation pressures, and lubricate the drill bit. Although the mud pumping process removes most of the solids from the drilling mud, debris and sand remain. This drilling mud subjects the pumps circulating the fluid to extreme wear, resulting in burdensome repair and maintenance costs. These mud pumps are routinely destroyed by the hostile drilling mud used during the mud pumping process causing OFS operators significant costs associated with excessive downtime, repairs, maintenance, capital equipment redundancy, safety, and rig mobilization. OFS operators have long sought ways to ruggedize or extend the life of these mud pumps thereby reducing costs, as well as isolate high-pressure mud pumps to bypass corrosive “mud” from the mud pumping system in drilling rigs, an integral piece of the well control system during drilling. 
Midstream and Downstream Sectors
IsoBoost & IsoGen, turbocharger solutions, for gas processing & pipeline applications: Within the oil & gas midstream and downstream sectors, pressure energy becomes a waste product at various stages of oil & gas processing thereby driving excessive energy usage and cost. In addition, these midstream and downstream sectors incur very steep expenses as a result of the ongoing maintenance and repair of the high-pressure pumps required to run the acid gas removal process. Our target markets consist of gas processing plants, pipeline substations and ammonia plants worldwide.
Solutions
Energy, repairs, maintenance, and capital costs are major cost drivers in the water and oil & gas markets. We have developed the following proprietary technology solutions to address these major cost drivers:
Water
In the water market, our energy recovery solutions reduce plant operating costs by capturing and reusing otherwise lost pressure energy from the reject stream of the water desalination process. Our water ERDs are categorized into two technology groups: PX Pressure Exchangers and turbochargers. Complementing these products are our high-performance, high-efficiency pumps. 
QPX and PX Prime, high efficiency ERD solutions for water applications: Our patented PX ERD technology consists of a ceramic rotor operating on highly efficient hydrodynamic bearings. Our PX ERDs enable water desalination plant operators to recover wasted hydraulic pressure energy from a high-pressure fluid flow and transfer the energy to a low-pressure fluid flow. Our PX ERDs perform with up to 98% efficiency and unmatched uptime in the desalination industry, and can reduce a desalination plant’s energy costs by up to 60%.
Turbochargers, high efficiency centrifugal ERD solutions for water applications: Our hydraulic turbochargers (“Turbochargers”) are designed for low-pressure brackish, high-pressure seawater reverse osmosis systems and various other water treatment applications. Our Turbochargers provide high efficiency with state-of-the-art engineering and configuration. Designed for maximum durability, reliability and optimum efficiency, our turbochargers offer substantial savings, and the custom-designed hydraulics and 3-dimensional (“3D”) geometry allow for optimum performance. 
Pumps, high efficiency pumps for water applications: Our high-pressure feed and circulation pumps are designed for low and high-pressure reverse osmosis systems. Specifically designed for the reverse osmosis industry, our pumps utilize our material science and hydraulic design expertise. Designed for maximum durability, reliability, and optimum efficiency, our pumping systems offer users savings, while the investment cast components and optimized fluid pathways ensure maximum performance.
Oil & Gas
In the oil & gas market, our technology solutions preserve or eliminate pumping technology in hostile processing environments or convert wasted pressure energy into a reusable asset. Our core oil & gas solutions based upon PX technology, the VorTeq and MTeq, which isolate high cost pumping equipment from hostile processing fluids. Our centrifugal line of solutions based upon turbocharger technology the IsoBoost and IsoGen, recycle otherwise lost pressure energy.
– 7 –

Upstream Sector
VorTeq, a PX solution for hydraulic fracturing applications: The VorTeq technology for use by OFS companies isolates and preserves costly frac-pumps by re-routing hostile frac-fluid away from the frac-pumps, and ultimately enables a more efficient pumping model. Using VorTeq, the frac-pumps will process only clean fluid, which leads to reduced repairs and maintenance costs, reduced capital costs by extending frac-pump life expectancy, and the elimination of redundant capital equipment. Furthermore, VorTeq enables the migration to more efficient pumping technology. Specifically, when frac-pumps are no longer required to process hostile frac-fluid, OFS companies are able to utilize fewer, larger and more efficient centrifugal pumps, which is not currently possible as such pumps cannot successfully process hostile frac-fluid. When implemented by OFS companies, this new centrifugal pump model has the potential to revolutionize the equipment (and cost) required to produce hydrocarbons through hydraulic fracturing. Our VorTeq is currently in the research and development (“R&D”) stage and we are actively working towards commercialization. We completed a substantial re-design of the VorTeq during 2017. We are focused on commercializing this technology.
MTeq, a PX solution for mud pumping applications: Our MTeq technology for use by OFS companies isolate and preserves costly mud pumps by re-routing hostile drilling mud away from these critical pumps, and ultimately enables a more efficient pumping model. These mud pumps will then process only clean fluid, which leads to reduced repairs and maintenance costs and reduced capital costs by extending pump life expectancy and eliminating redundant capital equipment. Furthermore, by processing only clean fluid, our MTeq enables the migration by the OFS companies to increasingly efficient pumping technology which cannot otherwise handle the hostile processing fluid. This more efficient pumping model further reduces capital expenditures and offers increased safety and reliability, as well as lower mobilization and logistics complexity and associated cost. Our MTeq is currently in the R&D stage and we are actively working towards commercialization. We designed the MTeq during late 2016 and early 2017 and completed building the first prototype in December 2017.
Midstream and Downstream Sectors
IsoBoost & IsoGen, turbocharger solutions, for gas processing & pipeline applications: Within the gas processing and pipeline pressure down cycle, the IsoBoost and IsoGen technology enables the recovery of pressure energy in the fluid flow either through the exchange of pressure within the application or by converting it to electricity. Our technology enables gas processing plant and pipeline owners and operators to achieve immediate and long-term energy savings with little or no operational disruption. Our IsoBoost is comprised of hydraulic turbochargers and related controls and automation systems. The IsoBoost solution enables oil & gas operators to capture and use wasted hydraulic pressure energy within the acid gas removal process, acting like a pump that is powered by hydraulic pressure that would otherwise be discarded through a control valve. Our IsoGen is comprised of hydraulic turbines, generators, and related controls and automation systems. The IsoGen enables oil & gas operators to generate electricity from the hydraulic energy in high-pressure fluid flows, either within the acid gas removal process in gas processing or at pipeline choke stations.
Customers
Water
We sell our ERD solutions to major international engineering, procurement, and construction (“EPC”) firms that can design, build, own and operate large-scale desalination plants; original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) which are companies that supply equipment and packaged solutions for small- to medium-sized desalination plants; national, state and local municipalities worldwide; and plant owners who can utilize our technology to upgrade or keep their plant running, or retrofit their existing plant equipment with various efficiency measures to optimize operations by reducing overall power consumed and reduce other operating costs in the desalination process.
Large Engineering, Procurement and Construction Firms
A significant portion of our revenue has historically come from sales of our ERD solutions to large EPC firms worldwide which have the required desalination expertise to engineer, undertake procurement for, construct, and sometimes own and operate, large desalination plants or mega-projects (“MPD”). We work with these firms to specify our ERD solutions for their plants. The time between project tender and shipment can range from sixteen to thirty-six months, or more. Each MPD project typically represents revenue opportunities ranging from $1 million to $6 million, and sometimes more.
– 8 –

Original Equipment Manufacturers
Our packaged solutions to OEMs include PXs, turbochargers, high-pressure pumps, and circulation “booster” pumps. Our sale of solutions and services to OEM suppliers are for integration and use in small- to medium-sized desalination plants located in small municipalities, hotels and resorts, power plants, cruise ships, farm operations, and other desalination facilities. In addition, these OEMs purchase our solutions for “quick water” or emergency water solutions. The time from project tender and shipment can range from one to 12 months. OEM projects typically represent revenue opportunities of up to $1 million. 
End-users and Service Providers
Our existing and expanding installed base of ERD and pump products in water plants has created a growing customer base comprised of plant operators and service providers. These customers purchase spare parts, replacement parts, and service contracts, as well as utilize our field service managers to perform maintenance and repairs. Owners and operators of older plants without effective ERDs and newer plants with ERDs manufactured by our competitors purchase our equipment to retrofit plants to realize operational expense reductions or expansions in plant capacity. In addition, these customers may retrofit their plants to harvest operational efficiencies through our Energy Service Agreements (“ESA”).
Oil & Gas
We license, lease or sell our oil and gas products to OFS companies, international oil companies (“IOC”), national oil companies (“NOC”), exploration and production companies (“E&P”), OEMs and EPC firms.
Oilfield Service Companies
OFS companies provide the infrastructure, equipment, intellectual property, and services needed by the oil & gas industry to explore for, extract, and transport crude oil and natural gas. OFS hydraulic fracturing and mud pumping operators face significant pressure to reduce costs as oil & gas companies curtail capital expenditures and seek operational efficiencies in response to lower commodity prices. 
Our VorTeq enables OFS hydraulic fracturing operators to isolate their frac-pumps from frac-fluid thereby reducing operating and capital costs. In 2014, we entered into a strategic partnership with Liberty Oil Field Services (“Liberty”) to pilot and conduct field trials with the VorTeq. Through this agreement, Liberty has the rights to lease up to twenty VorTeq missiles for a period of up to five years following commercialization. In 2015, we entered into a 15-year license agreement with Schlumberger Technology Corporation (the “VorTeq Licensee”) for the exclusive, worldwide right to use the VorTeq for hydraulic fracturing onshore operations. The license agreement provides a carve out for Liberty’s contractual rights to utilize the VorTeq. We are currently working with the VorTeq Licensee and Liberty to commercialize the VorTeq technology. 
Our MTeq enables OFS mud pumping operators drilling oil and gas wells to isolate their mud pumps from harsh drilling mud thereby reducing operating and capital costs. In the second quarter of 2017, we entered into a strategic early-stage testing agreement with Sidewinder Drilling to conduct testing of the MTeq solution at their yard facility. As with VorTeq, following product validation, we intend to enter into a long-term licensing agreement to bring the MTeq solution to market. These long-term licensing partners could be OFS companies that specialize in drilling wells or OEMs that supply or lease equipment to market participants. We are currently in the process of evaluating potential partners for the MTeq solution.
Gas Processing & Pipeline Operators
We have contracted and delivered oil & gas solutions to customers in North America, Asia, and the Middle East for use in gas processing applications. Our target market consists of gas processing plants, pipeline substations and ammonia plants worldwide. Our IsoGen solution has been installed in a major gas processing plant in the Middle East. Our IsoBoost solution has been purchased for integration into a major gas processing plant to be constructed in the Middle East.
In 2016, we received our first major purchase order for multiple units of our IsoBoost solution for integration into a major gas processing plant under construction in the Middle East. We expect to complete and ship the units to the Middle East in the first half of 2018. In April 2017, we entered into a 10-year licensing agreement with Alderley FZE for our IsoBoost & IsoGen technologies in gas processing and pipeline applications within the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (“GCC”), as well as Iraq and Iran to the extent international sanctions and laws permit.
– 9 –

Competition
Water 
The market for ERDs and pumps in the water treatment market is competitive. As the demand for fresh water increases and the market expands, we expect competition to persist and intensify.
We have three main competitors for our ERDs: Flowserve Corporation (“Flowserve”), Fluid Equipment Development Company (“FEDCO”), and Danfoss Group (“Danfoss”). Although these companies may offer competing solutions at lower initial prices, our solutions offer a competitive advantage because we believe that they provide the lowest life-cycle cost and are therefore the most cost-effective ERDs for the reverse osmosis desalination industry over time. 
In the market for large desalination projects, our PX ERDs compete primarily with Flowserve’s DWEER product. We believe that our PX ERDs have a competitive advantage over DWEER devices because our devices are made with highly durable and corrosion-resistant ceramic parts that are designed for a life of more than 25 years, are warranted for high efficiencies, cause minimal unplanned downtime, and offer lower lifecycle costs. Additionally, the PX ERDs offer optimum scalability with a quick startup as well as minimal maintenance. We believe that our large AT turbocharger solutions also have a competitive advantage over Flowserve’s Pelton Turbine product, particularly in countries where energy costs are low and upfront capital costs are a critical factor in purchase decisions, because our AT turbocharger solutions have higher net transfer efficiencies, lower upfront capital costs, a simple design with one rotating assembly, a small physical footprint, and a long operating life that leads to low total lifecycle costs.
In the market for small-to-medium-sized desalination plants, our solutions compete with FEDCO’s turbochargers and Danfoss’s ERDs. We believe that our PX ERDs have a competitive advantage over these solutions because our devices provide up to 98% energy efficiency, have lower lifecycle maintenance costs, and are made of highly durable and corrosion-resistant ceramic parts. We also believe that our turbochargers compete favorably with FEDCO’s turbochargers on the basis of efficiency and price and because our turbochargers have design advantages that enhance efficiency, operational flexibility, and serviceability.
In the market for high-pressure pumps, our solutions compete with pumps manufactured by Clyde Union Ltd.; FEDCO; Flowserve; KSB Aktiengesellschaft; Torishima Pump Mfg. Co., Ltd.; Sulzer Pumps, Ltd.; and other companies. We believe that our pump solutions are competitive with these solutions because our pumps are developed specifically for reverse osmosis desalination, are highly efficient, and feature product-lubricated bearings.
Oil & Gas
The landscape for our technology within the oil & gas market is competitive as the industry is continuously seeking ways to reduce costs and extend the life of assets used in the production or transportation of hydrocarbons. As demand for our products increase, we expect competition to intensify.
We believe our VorTeq technology represents a competitive advantage over existing missile manifold technology because our solution re-routes abrasive proppant away from high-pressure pumps, thereby extending pump lifespan, reducing repairs and maintenance costs, and decreasing the need for redundant capital equipment. In addition, because our VorTeq technology isolates the high-pressure frac-pumps from abrasive proppant, OFS fracing operators will have the option to transition to more robust, longer lived, centrifugal pumps thereby further decreasing operating and capital costs. While our VorTeq replaces a traditional manifold, the competitors to our VorTeq are the high-pressure frac pump manufacturers. There are a multitude of these pump manufacturers, including FMC Technologies, the Weir Group, Stewart & Stevenson and Forum Energy Technologies.
Our latest technology offering, the MTeq, enhances the useful life of mud pumps and consumable pump components used in land drilling by re-routing the abrasive drilling mud away from the high-pressure pumps, thereby isolating them. Because our MTeq isolates the mud pumps from abrasive fluid, OFS operators have the option to transition to more robust, longer life, centrifugal pumps thereby further decreasing operating and capital costs. Like the VorTeq (described in the preceding paragraph), the competition to the MTeq is a more robust mud pump or more durable mud pump components. The primary manufacturers of mud pumps are National Oilwell Varco, Inc., Gardner Denver, Inc. and Cameron International Corporation.
– 10 –

Our IsoBoost and IsoGen technologies integrate into acid gas removal systems to reduce energy consumption and increase the reliability and uptime of the amine circulation system. Several companies manufacture competitive technology to the IsoGen, which primarily consist of reverse running pumps (also called hydraulic power recovery turbines or HPRTs) and perform a basic form of energy recovery. Manufacturers of reverse running pumps include, but are not limited to, Flowserve, Sulzer Pumps, Ltd., and Shin Nippon Machinery. Several companies manufacture hydraulic turbochargers, which could eventually develop into competitive technology to the IsoBoost. However, none of these companies that manufacture turbochargers have significant experience within gas processing. In order to utilize a turbocharger in gas processing, expertise is required to validate the system level design and integration within a gas processing application.
Sales and Marketing
Water
In the water market, our strategically located direct sales force offers our products through capital sale, ESAs, and financing procurement vehicles. MPD opportunities are for desalination projects exceeding 50,000 cubic meters per day. OEM opportunities include sales of PX ERDs, turbochargers, and pumps for plants typically designed to produce less than 50,000 cubic meters per day. Aftermarket opportunities include new and replacement parts and products, as well as technical support, training, product installation, and plant commissioning. 
Oil & Gas
In the oil & gas market, we target OFSs, IOCs, NOCs, E&Ps, OEMs or EPCs on behalf of oil producers and chemical producers who have applications for our solutions and services. We endeavor to limit capital sales into the oil & gas market, thereby minimizing installation and distribution costs, as well as associated sales and marketing expenses. As a result, our primary go-to-market strategy in the oil & gas market is through technology licensing.
We have two agreements in place for the use of our VorTeq technology. In 2014, we entered into a strategic partnership with Liberty Oil Field Services (“Liberty”) to pilot and conduct field trials with the VorTeq and in 2015, we entered into a 15-year license agreement with our VorTeq Licensee for the exclusive, worldwide right to use the VorTeq for hydraulic fracturing onshore operations. The license agreement provides a carveout for Liberty’s contractual rights to utilize the VorTeq based on a 2014 early-stage strategic partnership agreement. 
We are currently evaluating potential long-term licensing partners for our MTeq technology, with the goal to license the technology in the future.
In April 2017, we entered into a 10-year licensing agreement with Alderley FZE for our IsoBoost and IsoGen technologies in gas processing and pipeline applications within the countries of the GCC, as well as Iraq and Iran to the extent international sanctions and laws permit.
A significant portion of our revenue is from outside of the U.S. Additional segment and geographical information regarding our product revenue is included in Note 13, “Geographical Information and Concentrations” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Operations
Water
Our water products are manufactured at our facility located in San Leandro, California, where our PXs, turbochargers and pumps are produced, assembled, and tested. We produce the majority of our ceramic components for our PX solutions in our advanced ceramics manufacturing facility, where we also complete machining, assembly and performance-testing of our PX devices. In addition, many components of our ERDs and pumps are also manufactured in San Leandro to protect the proprietary nature of our manufacturing methods and product designs and to maintain premium quality standards.
We obtain raw, processed and certain pre-machined materials from various suppliers to support our manufacturing operations. A limited number of these suppliers are near sole-source to maintain material consistency and support new product development. A qualified redundant material source exists in all cases.
– 11 –

Our production facility operates under the principles of Lean Manufacturing and continuously seeks ways to improve product and process performance. Our quality management system is certified to the ISO9001 standards.
Water field activities are conducted by our aftermarket and field service organization onsite at customer locations.
Oil & Gas
Our oil & gas product manufacturing, assembly, and testing is managed through our operations in Ireland. To produce our oil & gas products, we utilize multiple supply chain partners, in addition to our San Leandro manufacturing facility. We complete critical machining, assembly, and testing operations in-house to protect the proprietary nature of our manufacturing methods and product designs and to maintain premium quality standards. Our Ireland operations are also responsible for overseeing the commercialization of the VorTeq and expanding our manufacturing activities.
Oil & gas field activities are conducted by our field operations organization, which also provides support to R&D activities leading to VorTeq and MTeq commercialization.
Research and Development
We maintain a robust, multi-year product development road map which guides our R&D resource allocation. Specific to new product development, our focus is overwhelmingly on our proprietary PX technology given its prohibitive nature, broad technical aperture, and use across a broad array of markets and applications. Our corporate objective is to achieve proof of concept of one new derivative of the pressure exchanger annually, on a 24 month cycle. Our immediate R&D efforts are principally focused on developing new technologies for use within the oil & gas markets.
When developing products and ultimately markets for our products, we seek four distinct process criteria: (1) high rates of fluid flow; (2) large pressure differentials; (3) hostile fluids; and (4) high degrees of capital intensity, specifically in the form of pumping assets. Based on these criteria, our product development strategy is to identify fluid flow applications where pumps are being destroyed and/or where pressure energy is being wasted. Our technologies isolate pumping assets from hostile process fluids, or recover otherwise wasted pressure energy. Our R&D efforts are therefore focused on: (1) advancing new products in markets beyond desalination, with a specific and immediate emphasis on oil & gas, where our technology is utilized to preserve pumping assets; and (2) enhancing our existing energy recovery devices and pumps for the water desalination market.
To support our product strategy, we invest in engineering talent with expertise in fluid physics and advanced material science. In addition, to enable increasingly complex and shorter-cycle product development, we invest in advanced numerical modeling and analysis infrastructure allowing for 3D, multi-phase, multi-physics, and computational fluid dynamics. These models coupled with our existing structural interaction analytical capabilities supports our objective of achieving the proof of concept of one new derivative of the pressure exchanger each year. 
Our product development process evaluates potential technology applications across a set of criteria to determine the allocation of finite internal resources and prioritize target applications. Once a target application is identified and we determine conceptually how our technology can solve a problem, our product development steps start with evaluating the concept through analytical methods. This is followed by validating the analysis experimentally at sub-scale, then full-scale and finally as a system. Each of these stages follow a rigorous review process (business as well as technical) in order to steer the development towards a successful new technology.
Within our Water segment, R&D investments have produced the latest and most efficient energy recovery device, the PX Prime. In addition, we continue to advance our turbocharger and pump technologies to better service our water end markets.
Within our Oil & Gas segment, R&D investments are primarily focused on commercializing the VorTeq and MTeq, as well as developing new products for applications where pumping assets are compromised due to hostile process fluids. Our foremost priority remains the commercialization of VorTeq.
– 12 –

Seasonality
In our Water segment, we often experience substantial fluctuations in product revenue from quarter-to-quarter and from year-to-year because a single order for our ERDs by a large EPC firm for a particular plant may represent significant revenue. In addition, historically our EPC customers tend to order a significant amount of equipment for delivery in the fourth quarter, and as a consequence, a significant portion of our annual sales typically occur during the fourth quarter.
In our Oil & Gas segment, we do not currently have enough history to determine seasonal revenue patterns.
Intellectual Property
We seek patent protection for new technologies, inventions, and improvements that are likely to be incorporated into our solutions. We rely on patents, trade secret laws, and contractual safeguards to protect the proprietary tooling, processing techniques, and other know-how used in the production of our solutions. We have a robust intellectual property portfolio consisting of U.S. and International issued patents as well as pending patent applications.
We have registered the following trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark office: “ERI,” “PX,” “PX Pressure Exchanger,” “Pressure Exchanger,” the Energy Recovery logo, “Making Desalination Affordable,” “IsoBoost,” and “IsoGen.” Applications are pending for “VorTeq” and “MTeq.” We have also applied for and received registrations in international trademark offices.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 133 employees: 47 in manufacturing; 25 in engineering, research and development; 34 in corporate services and management; and 27 in sales, service, and marketing. Fourteen of these employees were located outside of the United States. We also engage a relatively small number of independent contractors, primarily as sales agents worldwide. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and our employees are not unionized.
Additional Information
The Energy Recovery website is www.energyrecovery.com. We use the Investor Relations section of our website as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, presentations, and financial statements. We intend to use the Investor Relations section of our website as a means of complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website in addition to press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our website or any other website is not part of this report nor is it considered to be incorporated by reference herein or with any other filing we make with the SEC. Our headquarters and primary manufacturing center is located at 1717 Doolittle Drive, San Leandro, California 94577, and our main telephone number is (510) 483-7370.
– 13 –

