Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “Daré” or the “Company” refer collectively to Daré Bioscience, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires. All information presented in this report is based on our fiscal year. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to our fiscal years ending December 31 and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years.
 Overview 
 We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company committed to the advancement of innovative products for women’s reproductive health. We are driven by a mission to identify, develop and bring to market a diverse portfolio of differentiated therapies that expand treatment options, improve outcomes and facilitate convenience for women, primarily in the areas of contraception, vaginal health, sexual health and fertility. 
Our Strategy
 Our business strategy is to license or otherwise acquire the rights to differentiated reproductive health product candidates, some of which have existing clinical proof-of-concept data, and to take those candidates through advanced stages of clinical development.
 We believe that there is an opportunity to fill the gap that exists within clinical development of women’s health care products between (a) non-profit organizations and small private companies that discover, innovate and conduct early clinical development of product candidates, and (b) large pharmaceutical companies that conduct late-stage clinical development and commercialize approved products. We believe that the stages of clinical development between those two ends of the development spectrum (early clinical development of product candidates and commercialization of product candidates by large pharmaceutical companies) are currently underserved. In addition, we believe there are gaps in therapeutic options for women and that there is an opportunity to deliver medicines that are better aligned with women’s specific needs.  We intend to fill the mid-stage development gap and the gaps in therapeutic options for women. The dynamics of the women’s reproductive health market provide an opportunity for us to assemble a portfolio of candidates, including clinical-stage candidates, often with published human data. We believe we can enter into agreements that will allow us to advance the clinical development of these candidates and, if successful, create a comprehensive global commercialization strategy in combination with established pharmaceutical partners and regional distributors.
 Our Product Candidates and Programs
 We are initially focused on the areas of contraception, vaginal health, sexual health and fertility. Our product acquisitions have focused primarily on product candidates with preclinical and early clinical testing data that have been developed by the licensors. We intend to use the existing data, and data that we generate, in preparing Investigational New Drug Applications, or INDs, or Investigational Device Exemptions, or IDEs, to the extent these have not already been prepared, and in designing and implementing additional preclinical and clinical trials to advance the regulatory approval process toward New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Premarket Approvals, or PMAs. We believe that we have product candidates that offer innovative therapeutic approaches that may provide meaningful advantages to current products. We are currently developing two clinical-stage product candidates: Ovaprene™, a non-hormonal monthly contraceptive and SST-6007, Topical Sildenafil cream for Female Sexual Arousal Disorder.
Ovaprene
 We believe the need for more effective and convenient options is particularly true in the case of contraception. While a variety of hormonal and non-hormonal options currently exist, there is one notable void: an effective short-acting, non-hormonal method of contraception that does not require intervention at the time of intercourse. 
  Ovaprene is a monthly non-hormonal contraceptive ring that is currently undergoing clinical development in the United States. The Ovaprene intravaginal ring, if approved for marketing, requires no intervention at the time of intercourse, does not use hormones and would be intended to provide protection over multiple weeks of use. Ovaprene consists of a silicone-reinforced ring with a soft, absorbable scaffolding that encircles a fluid-permeable barrier. A non-braided, multi-filament mesh in the center of the ring functions as a physical barrier to sperm. The silicone ring also releases two ingredients—ascorbic acid and ferrous gluconate—that act together to create a spermiostatic environment within the vagina.
 Ovaprene is a combination product that previously underwent a request for designation process within the Office of Combination Products at the FDA. The FDA designated Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, as the lead agency FDA program center for premarket review and product regulation; it also provided notice that CDRH has 
 3

determined that a PMA will be required. We intend to develop Ovaprene based on PMA guidelines. If approved, Ovaprene would represent a new category of birth control. In a postcoital test, or PCT, pilot study conducted in 20 women and published in The Journal of Reproductive Medicine® in 2009, Ovaprene demonstrated the ability to immobilize sperm and prevent their progression into the cervical mucus.
 SST-6007
 Today, there are no products approved by the FDA to treat Female Sexual Arousal Disorder, or FSAD. Although numerous pharmaceutical products have been developed, tested and approved to treat erectile dysfunction in men, women continue to lack effective options for FSAD, an analogous condition.  On February 12, 2018, we announced that we signed an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize SST-6007 (5% Topical Sildenafil Citrate Cream), a potential treatment for FSAD. The license and collaboration agreement under which we obtained such license became effective on February 15, 2018, when we satisfied certain capital raising obligations. See “License and Royalty Agreements—SST-6007,” below.
 FSAD is characterized primarily by an inability to attain or maintain sufficient physical sexual arousal, frequently resulting in distress or interpersonal difficulty.  SST-6007 incorporates sildenafil, the same active ingredient in male erectile dysfunction drug Viagra®, into a proprietary cream formulation. Topical SST-6007 is specifically designed to locally increase blood flow locally to the vulvar-vaginal tissue in women, leading to a potential improvement in genital arousal response and overall sexual experience.
 We plan to pursue the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for SST-6007 in the U.S. in order to leverage the existing data and established safety profile of the Viagra® brand. If approved, SST-6007 could be the first rigorously tested and FDA approved FSAD treatment option for women.
 Sales and Marketing
 We currently have no formal internal marketing and sales infrastructure and capabilities. Our expected strategy with respect to potential commercialization of current and any future product candidates is to supplement our internal efforts with strategic-partners.
Manufacturing
 We rely on third parties for the manufacture of our clinical trial material and we expect to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our drugs and devices, should they receive regulatory approval in the future.
License and Royalty Agreements
 Ovaprene
 We entered into a license agreement with ADVA-Tec, Inc. under which we were granted an exclusive license under ADVA-Tec’s intellectual property rights to develop and commercialize Ovaprene for human contraceptive use worldwide, and which became effective on July 19, 2017, after we secured the initial funding required in accordance with its terms. ADVA-Tec and its affiliates own issued patents or patent applications covering Ovaprene, and control proprietary trade secrets covering the manufacture of Ovaprene.  As of March 13, 2018, this patent portfolio includes 12 issued patents worldwide, along with eight patent applications, all of which, in accordance with the terms of the ADVA-Tec license agreement, are exclusively licensed to us for all uses of Ovaprene as a human contraceptive device. We also have a right of first refusal to license these patents and patent applications for purposes of additional indications for Ovaprene. Under the ADVA-Tec license agreement, ADVA-Tec will conduct certain research and development work as necessary to allow us to seek a PMA from the FDA, and will provide us with our clinical supplies of Ovaprene for clinical and commercial use on commercially reasonable terms. 
 Under the ADVA-Tec license agreement, we are required to make payments of up to $14.6 million in the aggregate to ADVA-Tec based on the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones, which include the completion of a successful postcoital clinical study, which is required before we can commence a Phase 3 pivotal human clinical trial; the FDA’s approval to commence such Phase 3 pivotal human clinical trial; successful completion of such Phase 3 pivotal human clinical trial; the FDA’s acceptance of the filing of a PMA for Ovaprene; the FDA’s approval of the PMA for Ovaprene; Conformite Europeenne, or CE, Marking of Ovaprene in at least three designated European countries; obtaining regulatory approval in at least three designated European countries; and obtaining regulatory approval in Japan. In addition, after the commercial launch of Ovaprene, we are also required to make royalty payments to ADVA-Tec based on aggregate annual net sales of Ovaprene in specified regions and a royalty rate that will vary between 1% and 10% and 
 4

will increase based on various net sales thresholds.  Finally, we are also required to make up to $20 million in the aggregate in commercial milestone payments to ADVA-Tec upon reaching certain worldwide net sales milestones. 
 We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize Ovaprene, and must meet certain minimum spending amounts per year, such amounts totaling $5 million in the aggregate over the first three years, to cover such activities until a final PMA is filed, or until the first commercial sale of Ovaprene, whichever occurs first. 
 The license we received under the ADVA-Tec license agreement continues on a country-by-country basis until the later of the life of the licensed patents or our last commercial sale of Ovaprene. The ADVA-Tec license agreement includes customary termination rights for both parties, and it provides us the right to terminate with or without cause in whole or on a country-by-country basis upon 60 days prior written notice. In addition, ADVA-Tec may terminate the agreement if we fail to do any of the following: (i) satisfy the annual spending obligation described above, (ii) fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to complete all necessary pre-clinical and clinical studies required to support and submit a PMA, (iii) fail to conduct clinical trials as set forth in the development plan to which we and ADVA-Tec agree, and as may be modified by a joint research committee, where such failure is not caused by events outside of our reasonable control, or (iv) fail to enroll a patient in the first non-significant risk medical device study or clinical trial as allowed by an institutional review board within six months of the production and release of Ovaprene, where non-enrollment is not caused by events outside of the our reasonable control. In addition, ADVA-Tec may terminate the agreement if we develop or commercialize any non-hormonal ring-based vaginal contraceptive device competitive to Ovaprene or, in certain limited circumstances, if we fail to commercialize Ovaprene in certain designated countries within three years of the first commercial sale of Ovaprene. 
 SST-6007
 On February 11, 2018, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Strategic Science and Technologies-D, LLC and Strategic Science Technologies, LLC, or referred to collectively as Strategic Science. We refer to such agreement as the SST license agreement in this report. Under the SST license agreement, we obtained a worldwide exclusive, royalty-bearing, sublicensable license to develop and commercialize Strategic Science’s topical formulation of sildenafil citrate as it exists as of the effective date of the SST license agreement, or any other topically applied pharmaceutical product containing sildenafil or a salt thereof as a pharmaceutically active ingredient, alone or with other active ingredients, or the SST licensed products, but specifically excluding any product containing ibuprofen or any salt derivative of ibuprofen. Our license to develop and commercialize the SST licensed products is for all indications for women related to female sexual dysfunction and/or female reproductive health, including treatment of female sexual arousal disorder, or the SST field of use. The license was granted subject to our securing an investment of at least $10,000,000 by March 31, 2018, which was secured as a result of the underwritten public offering that closed on February 15, 2018, discussed elsewhere in this report.
 Under the terms of the SST license agreement, we retain rights to inventions made by our employees, Strategic Science retains rights to inventions made by its employees, and each party owns a 50% undivided interest in all joint inventions. Each party agreed to collaborate through a joint development committee responsible for determining the strategic objectives for, and generally overseeing, the development efforts of both parties under the SST license agreement. We agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop the SST licensed products in the SST field of use in accordance with a development plan contained in the SST license agreement, and to commercialize the SST licensed products in the SST field of use.
 Strategic Science will be eligible to receive tiered royalties based on percentages of annual net sales of the SST licensed products in the single digits to the mid-double digits, including customary provisions permitting royalty reductions and offset, and a percentage of sublicense revenue. We are responsible for all reasonable internal and external costs and expenses incurred by Strategic Science in its performance of the development activities it is required to perform under the SST license agreement. We are also required to make milestone payments to Strategic Science ranging from $500,000 to $150,000,000 contingent on achieving certain clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones.
 The license we received under the SST license agreement continues on a country-by-country basis until the later of ten years from the date of the first commercial sale of such SST licensed product or the expiration of the last valid claim of patent rights covering the SST licensed product in the SST field of use. We and Strategic Science have customary rights to terminate the SST license agreement in the event of material uncured breach by the other party, and, (i) prior to receipt of approval by a regulatory authority necessary for commercialization of an SST licensed product in the corresponding jurisdiction, including NDA approval, we will have the right to terminate the agreement without cause upon 90 days prior written notice to Strategic Science, and (ii) following receipt of approval by a regulatory authority necessary for commercialization of an SST licensed product in the corresponding jurisdiction, including NDA approval, we will have a right to terminate the agreement without cause upon 180 days prior written notice.  Strategic Science has the right to terminate the agreement with respect to the applicable SST licensed product(s) in the applicable country(ies) upon 30 days’ notice if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to perform development activities in substantial accordance with the development plan and do not cure such failure within 60 days of receipt of notice thereof.
 5

Upon expiration (but not termination) of the SST license agreement in a particular country, we will have a fully paid-up license under the licensed intellectual property to develop and commercialize the applicable SST licensed products in the applicable country on a non-exclusive basis.
 Intellectual Property
 We actively seek to protect the proprietary technology that we consider important to our business in the United States and other jurisdictions internationally. We also rely upon trade secrets and contracts to protect our proprietary information. 
Patents
 In accordance with the terms of the ADVA-Tec Agreement, we are the exclusive licensee of nine granted U.S. patents and granted patents and/or pending applications in other major markets. There can be no assurance that any of these patent applications will result in the grant of a patent either in the United States or elsewhere, or that any patents granted will be valid and enforceable, or that these patents will provide a competitive advantage or afford protection against competitors with similar technologies. We also rely upon trade secret rights to protect other technologies that may be used to discover, validate and commercialize Ovaprene and any future product candidates. We presently seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements.
 We consider the following U.S. patents and applications that are exclusively licensed to us
 pursuant to the ADVA-Tec Agreement to be particularly important to the protection of Ovaprene.
 
 
Jurisdiction | Patent Title | Patent Expiration
United States | Intravaginal Ringed Mesh Device And Applicator Therefor | August 2028 
United States | Partially Absorbable Fiber-Reinforced Compositions For Controlled Drug Delivery | August 2028 
United States | Multicomponent Bioactive Intravaginal Ring | August 2028 

 The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of third party patents that is successfully asserted against us, ADVA-Tec or ADVA-Tec’s licensor may require us to pay substantial damages or may limit ours or ADVA-Tec’s ability to rely on such patent protection. Any third party claim successfully alleging the invalidity or unenforceability of the patents may also limit ours or ADVA-Tec’s ability to rely on such patent protection. Even if we, ADVA-Tec or ADVA-Tec’s licensor were to prevail in any such action, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations. Also, if our product candidate or any future products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture, and sale of these potential products could be severely restricted or prohibited. Because of the importance of the patents licensed to us by ADVA-Tec for Ovaprene, our business and our prospects may be harmed if we fail to maintain the patent rights from ADVA-Tec or if we, ADVA-Tec or ADVA-Tec’s licensor fail to protect key intellectual property rights.
 In accordance with the SST license Agreement, we are the exclusive licensee in the SST field of use of fifteen issued patents worldwide (six U.S. patents and nine foreign patents), along with six pending worldwide patent applications. The issued U.S. patents have a patent term until December 2031 and may be eligible for patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act.
 Trademarks
 We hold a domestic registration for the trademark Daré Bioscience. In accordance with the terms of the ADVA-Tec Agreement, we are the exclusive licensee of the Ovaprene trademark.
Market Access
 We intend to create a comprehensive global commercialization strategy in combination with established pharmaceutical partners and regional distributors. 
 Potential future product candidates
 In addition to Ovaprene and SST-6007, we have identified other potential product candidates in women’s reproductive health that meet our selection criteria of expanding options, improving outcomes, and that are easy and convenient to use. We do not currently have any rights or licenses to such product candidates but may seek to acquire or license such products in the future to build a more robust product pipeline over time.
 6

Research and Development
 Our research and development expenses were $984,749 and $72,666
 in 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2017 and 2016, our research and development expenses consisted primarily of costs for Ovaprene associated with: consultants and clinical trial sites that conduct research and development activities on our behalf; laboratory and vendor expenses related to the execution of clinical trials; contract manufacturing expenses, primarily for the production of clinical supplies; and internal costs that are associated with activities performed by us and our partners and generally benefit multiple programs. See PART II—Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” below for more information regarding our research and development expenses.
Competition
 The industries in which we operate (biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical) are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant change. We may not be able to compete successfully against organizations with competitive products, particularly large pharmaceutical companies. Many of our potential competitors have greater clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, compliance and financial resources and experience than we do. See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—Risks Related to our Business—We face intense competition from other medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively,” below.
 Over the longer term, our ability, independently or otherwise, to successfully manufacture, market, distribute and sell any approved products, expand their usage or bring additional new products to the marketplace will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, FDA and foreign regulatory agency approval of new products and of new indications for existing products, the efficacy and safety of our products (alone and relative to other treatment options), the degree of patent or other protection afforded to particular products, and reimbursement for use of those products.
 Many other organizations are developing drug products and other therapies intended to treat the same diseases and conditions for which our product candidates are in development, and the success of others may render potential application of our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive, even prior to completion of its development.
 Suppliers
 For some of the key raw materials and components of Ovaprene, we have only a single source of supply, and alternate sources of supply may not be readily available. ADVA-Tec will be responsible for all activities related to process development and scale up of Ovaprene manufacturing. Further, either directly or via a contract manufacturing organization, ADVA-Tec will be responsible for Ovaprene clinical and commercial supply. 

Under the terms of the SST license agreement, Strategic Science will be responsible for obtaining supplies of SST-6007 for the Phase 2 clinical studies expected to be conducted in the United States. Thereafter, we will be responsible for obtaining pre-clinical, clinical and commercial supplies of SST-6007. 
 Both ADVA-Tec and Strategic Science will need to rely on third party suppliers to provide the quantities required. We expect the quantities of SST-6007 required to meet our foreseeable needs will be generally available from multiple sources. See “ITEM 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to our Business—Our success relies on third party suppliers, manufacturers and distributors, including multiple single source suppliers and manufacturers. We have no internal sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. Any failure by such third parties could negatively impact our business and our ability to develop and market any approved products,” below.
 Government Regulation
 Governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries extensively regulate the testing, manufacturing, labeling and packaging, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, import, export, marketing and distribution, among other things, of pharmaceutical, medical device, and combination products. In the U.S., the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and other federal statutes and regulations, subject pharmaceutical and other regulated products to rigorous review. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted.
 We and our third-party manufacturers, distributors and contract research organizations, or CROs, may also be subject to regulations under other federal, state, and local laws, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Clean Air Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, privacy laws and import, export and customs regulations, as well as the laws and regulations of other countries.
 7


FDA Approval Process for Prescription Drugs
 To obtain approval of a new drug product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting its safety and efficacy, as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the drug and proposed product labeling. The testing and collection of data and the preparation of necessary applications are expensive and time-consuming. The FDA may not act quickly or favorably in reviewing these applications, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain FDA approvals that could delay or preclude us from marketing our product candidates.
 The process required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following: 
  
• | completion of nonclinical studies performed in compliance with FDA regulations;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | design of a clinical protocol and its submission to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for its intended use;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | submission of an NDA after completion of pivotal clinical trials and FDA acceptance of that NDA;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product are produced and tested to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | possible inspection of selected clinical sites to confirm compliance with good clinical practices, or GCP, requirements and data integrity; and
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug product in the U.S.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The clinical investigation of an investigational new drug is divided into three phases that typically are conducted sequentially but may overlap. The three phases are as follows:
 Phase 1. Phase 1 includes initial clinical trials introducing an investigational new drug into humans and may be conducted in patients or normal volunteer subjects. These trials are designed to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. 
 Phase 2. Phase 2 includes the controlled clinical trials conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition under study and to determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. Phase 2 trials are typically well controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a relatively small number of patients. 
 Phase 3. Phase 3 trials are typically large trials performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the drug has been obtained. They are intended to gather additional information about the effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide an adequate basis for physician labeling and product marketing approval. Phase 3 trials usually are conducted at geographically dispersed clinical study sites.
 A clinical trial may combine the elements of more than one phase and the FDA may require more than one Phase 3 trial to support marketing approval of a product candidate. A company’s designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that the study will be sufficient to satisfy the FDA requirements of that phase because this determination cannot be made until the protocol and data have been submitted to and reviewed by the FDA. 
 A pivotal trial is a clinical trial that is believed to satisfy FDA requirements for the evaluation of a product candidate’s safety and efficacy such that it can be used, alone or with other pivotal or non-pivotal trials, to support regulatory approval. Generally, pivotal trials are Phase 3 trials, but they may be Phase 2 trials if the design provides a well-controlled and reliable assessment of clinical benefit, particularly in an area of unmet medical need.
 8

Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s GCP requirements. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or that the participants are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. An institutional review board, or IRB, must approve the clinical trial design and process for obtaining patient informed consent at study sites that the IRB oversees and also may halt a study, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB’s requirements.
 As a product candidate moves through the clinical testing phases, manufacturing processes are further defined, refined, controlled and validated. The level of control and validation required by the FDA increases as clinical development progresses. We and the third-party manufacturers on which we rely for the manufacture of our product candidates and their respective components (including API) are subject to requirements that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with cGMP. To comply with cGMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to meet requirements relating to personnel, facilities, equipment, production and process, labeling and packaging, quality control, recordkeeping and other requirements.
 Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, detailed information on the product candidate is submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug for one or more indications, together with payment of a significant user fee, unless waived. An NDA includes all relevant data available from pertinent nonclinical studies and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information on the product candidate’s chemistry, manufacturing, and controls, or CMC and proposed labeling, among other things. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for its intended use to the satisfaction of the FDA.
 Most innovative drug 
products (other than biological products) obtain FDA marketing approval pursuant to an NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA. Another alternative is a special type of NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, commonly referred to as a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, which enables the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA’s finding of safety and efficacy data for an existing product, or published literature, in support of its application. Section 505(b)(2) NDAs may provide an alternate path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. 
 Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA in which the applicant relies, at least in part, on information from studies made to show whether a drug is safe or effective that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use. A Section 505(b)(2) applicant may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies, if it can establish that reliance on studies conducted for a previously-approved product is scientifically appropriate. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the labeled indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication for which the Section 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has submitted data.
 The FDA reviews all NDAs, whether 505(b)(1) or 505(b)2 applications, submitted to ensure that they are sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts them for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. The FDA has 60 days after submission of an NDA to conduct an initial review to determine whether it is sufficient to accept for filing.
 If an NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA sets a goal date by which it plans to complete its review. For a standard review, this goal date typically is ten months from the date of submission of the NDA application. If the NDA application relates to an unmet medical need in a serious or life-threatening indication and is designated for priority review, the FDA’s goal date typically is six (6) months from the date of NDA submission. However, PDUFA goal dates are not legal mandates and FDA response often occurs several months beyond the original PDUFA goal date. Further, the review process and the target response date under PDUFA may be extended if the FDA requests, or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides, additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the NDA. As a result, the NDA review process can be very lengthy. During its review of an NDA, the FDA may refer the application to an advisory committee of independent experts for a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it typically follows such recommendations. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive, and the FDA or its advisory committee may interpret data differently than the NDA sponsor.
 After evaluating the NDA and inspecting manufacturing facilities where the drug product or its API will be produced, the FDA will either approve commercial marketing of the drug product  for specific indications of use or issue a 
 9

complete response letter, or CRL, indicating that the application is not ready for approval and stating the conditions that must be met in order to secure approval of the NDA. If the CRL requires additional data and the applicant subsequently submits that data, the FDA nevertheless may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy its criteria for approval. The FDA could also approve the NDA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, which could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition drug approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct post-marketing testing. Such post-marketing testing may include Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product’s safety and efficacy after approval. 
 If the FDA approves any of our product candidates, we will be required to comply with a number of ongoing post-marketing regulatory requirements. We would be required to report, among other things, certain adverse reactions and production problems to the FDA, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for any of our prescription drug products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements. If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such as certain manufacturing changes, we will need FDA approval before the change can be implemented. For example, if we change the manufacturer of a product or its API, the FDA may require stability or other data from the new manufacturer, which data will take time and is costly to generate, and the delay associated with generating this data may cause interruptions in our ability to meet commercial demand, if any. Moreover, although physicians may use products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA, we may not label or promote the product for an indication that has not been approved pursuant to an NDA. Securing FDA approval for new indications is similar to the process for approval of the original indication and requires, among other things, submitting data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the product’s safety and efficacy in the new indication. Even if such trials are conducted, the FDA may not approve any expansion of the labeled indications for use in a timely fashion, or at all.
 We rely on third parties for the manufacture of our clinical trial material and we expect to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our drugs and devices, should they receive regulatory approval in the future. Future FDA, state or foreign governmental agency inspections may identify compliance issues at these third-party facilities that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or the failure to comply with applicable requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary, FDA-initiated or judicial action that could delay or prohibit further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or efficacy data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and also may require the implementation of other risk management measures. Many of the foregoing could limit the commercial value of a product or require us to commit substantial additional resources in connection with the approval of an investigational drug. Also, new government requirements, including those resulting from new legislation, may be established, or the FDA’s policies may change, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development.
 Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement
 Sales of our drug products, if approved, will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health care programs, private health insurers, managed health care providers, and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging drug prices and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. If these third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other therapies, they may not cover our products after approval as a benefit under their plans or, even if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 
 Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status for newly approved drug products, including coding, coverage and payment. Sales of any products for which we obtain marketing approval will depend in part on coverage and adequate payment from third-party payors. There is no uniform policy requirement for coverage and reimbursement for drug products among third-party payors in the United States, therefore coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payor to payor. The coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate payment will be applied consistently or obtained. The process for determining whether a payor will cover and how much it will reimburse a product may be separate from the process of seeking approval of the product or for setting the price of the product. Even if reimbursement is provided, market acceptance of our products 
 10

may be adversely affected if the amount of payment for our products proves to be unprofitable for health care providers or less profitable than alternative treatments or if administrative burdens make our products less desirable to use. 
 Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments and the prices of drug products have been a focus in this effort. For example, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. We expect that federal, state and local governments in the U.S. will continue to consider legislation directed at lowering the total cost of health care. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of drug products is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient.
 The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively referred to as the ACA, enacted in March 2010, has had and is expected to continue to have a significant impact on the health care industry. The ACA, among other things, imposes a significant annual fee on certain companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. The ACA also increased the Medicaid rebate rate and the volume of rebated drugs has been expanded to include beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care organizations. The ACA also expanded the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs), including a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, and revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of the Medicaid drug rebates paid to states. It also contains substantial provisions intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of health care spending, enhance remedies against health care fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the health care industry, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical manufacturers, and impose additional health policy reforms, any or all of which may affect our business. Since its enactment there have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the ACA in the future. Certain provisions of the ACA are not yet, or have only recently become, effective, and others have been temporarily suspended, but the ACA is likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.
 Other legislative changes have also been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. For example, the Budget Control Act of 2011 resulted in aggregate reductions in Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in 2013 and, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, will stay in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken, Additionally, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding. Strong, partisan disagreement in Congress has prevented implementation of various ACA provisions, while the Trump Administration has made repeal of the ACA a priority.  One of the first executive orders of the Trump administration granted federal agencies broad powers to unwind regulations under the ACA. On January 11, 2017, the Senate voted to approve a “budget blueprint” allowing Republicans to repeal parts of the law while avoiding Democrat filibuster.  The “Obamacare Repeal Resolution” passed 51-48.  Certain legislators are continuing their efforts to repeal the ACA, although there is little clarity on how such a repeal would be implemented and what an ACA replacement might look like.  For the immediate future, there is significant uncertainty regarding the health care, health care coverage and health care insurance markets.
 It is uncertain whether and how future legislation, whether domestic or abroad, could affect prospects for our product candidates or what actions federal, state, or commercial payors for pharmaceutical products may take in response to any such health care reform proposals or legislation. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures reforms may prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our product candidates.
 FDA Approval Process for Combination Products and Medical Devices
 A combination product is a product composed of a combination of two or more FDA-regulated product components or products, e.g., drug-device or biologic-device. A combination product can take a variety of forms, such as a single entity made by physically or chemically combining components, or a single unit made of separately packaged products. Each combination product is assigned a lead FDA Center, which has jurisdiction for the premarket review and regulation, based on which constituent part of the combination product provides the primary mode of action, i.e., the mode of action expected to make the greatest contribution to the overall intended therapeutic effect of the product. If the classification as a combination product or the lead Center assignment is unclear or in dispute, a sponsor may request a meeting, submit a Request for Designation or RFD, and the FDA will issue a designation letter within 60 calendar days of the filing of the RFD. Depending on the type of combination product, the FDA may require a single application for 
 11

approval, clearance, or licensure of the combination product, or separate applications for the constituent parts. During the review of marketing applications, the lead Center may consult or collaborate with other FDA Centers. 
 In 2017, the FDA released final documents addressing the application of cGMP requirements and classification issues relating to combinati
on products. The 21st Century Cures Act, or the Cures Act, which became law in December 2016 and, among other things, amended provisions of the FDCA, sets forth a number of provisions pertaining to combination products, such as procedures for negotiating disagreements between sponsors and the FDA and requirements intended to streamline FDA premarket reviews of combination products that contain an already-approved component. For drug-device combination products, comprised of an FDA-approved drug and device primary mode of action, the Cures Act applies Hatch-Waxman requirements to the premarket review process such that a patent dispute regarding the listed drug may result in the delay of the 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of the combination product. Furthermore, the Cures Act applies exclusivity provisions (e.g., new chemical entity and orphan drug exclusivities) to the device clearance and approval process for combination products with a device primary mode of action.
 Because the FDA has different divisions responsible for assessing and approving devices, drugs, and biologics, the FDA’s response to an RFD submitted by a sponsor will assign a lead Center for the combination product. The CDRH has oversight responsibility for medical devices, while the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, has responsibility for drug products.  Because combination products involve components that would normally be regulated under different types of regulatory authorities, and frequently by different FDA Centers, they raise challenging regulatory, policy, and review management challenges. Differences in regulatory pathways for each component can impact the regulatory processes for all aspects of product development and management, including preclinical testing, clinical investigation, marketing applications, manufacturing and quality control, adverse event reporting, promotion and advertising, and post-approval modifications.
The development and approval process for combination products designated as having a drug-primary mode of action and assigned to CDER generally will follow the procedures set forth above for pharmaceutical products. Similarly, medical devices and combination products with a device-primary mode of action may also be subject to FDA approval and extensive regulation under the FDCA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes: Class I, Class II, or Class III. A higher class indicates a greater degree of risk associated with the device and a greater amount of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness.
 All devices, unless exempt by FDA regulation, must adhere to a set of general controls, including compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which sets forth good manufacturing practice requirements; facility registration and product listing; reporting of adverse medical events; truthful and non-misleading labeling; and promotion of the device consistent with its 
cleared or approved intended uses. Class II and III devices are subject to additional special controls and may require FDA clearance of a premarket notification (510(k)) or approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA.
 Most Class I devices are exempt from FDA premarket review or approval. Class II devices, with some exceptions, must be “cleared” by the FDA through the 510(k) process, which requires a company to show that the device is “substantially equivalent” to certain devices already on the market. Class III devices, again with some exceptions, must be approved through a PMA. A PMA generally requires data from clinical trials that establish the safety and effectiveness of the device. A 510(k) application also sometimes requires clinical data. The Cures Act requires the FDA to establish a program that would expedite access to devices that provide more effective treatment or diagnosis of life-threatening or irreversibly debilitating diseases or conditions, for which no approved or cleared treatment exists or which offer significant advantages over existing approved or cleared alternatives; in 2017, the FDA published draft guidance on this “breakthrough” devices pathway.
 Clinical trials for medical devices are subject to similar requirements as those conducting clinical trials with pharmaceutical products. Clinical trials involving significant risk devices (e.g., devices that present a potential for serious risk to the health, safety, or welfare of human subjects) are required to obtain both FDA approval of an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application and IRB approval before study initiation; clinical trials involving non-significant risk devices are not required to submit an IDE for FDA approval but must obtain IRB approval before study initiation.
 The FDA has broad regulatory and enforcement powers with respect to medical devices, similar to those for pharmaceutical products. The FDA requires medical device manufacturers to comply with detailed requirements regarding the design and manufacturing practices, labeling and promotion, record keeping, and adverse event reporting. As with pharmaceutical products, states also impose regulatory requirements on medical device manufacturers and distributors. Failure to comply with the applicable federal or state requirements could result in, among other things: (1) fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; (2) recall or seizure of products; (3) operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of manufacturing; (4) refusing requests for approval of new products; (5) withdrawing approvals already granted; and (6) criminal prosecution.
 12

The FDA also administers certain controls over the import and export of medical devices to and from the United States. Additionally, each foreign country subjects medical devices to its own regulatory requirements. In the European Union, a single regulatory approval process has been created, and approval is represented by the CE Mark.
 Other Health Care Laws and Compliance Requirements
 In addition to FDA requirements, several other types of state and federal laws apply and will apply to our operations. These laws include, among others, health care information and data privacy protection laws, transparency laws, and fraud and abuse laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws.
 The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item, good, facility or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor.
 Federal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws prohibit, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for, among other things, allegedly promoting their products for uses for which they were not approved and causing the submission of claims for payment for such use under federal health care programs.
 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, on certain types of individuals and entities, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.
 The ACA also includes federal transparency requirements that apply to certain manufacturers of drug products, medical devices, biologics and medical supplies and require them to annually report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and physician ownership and investment interests.  Compliance with such reporting requirements may be costly for us once we have a drug product in commercial distribution and it is reimbursed by Medicaid.  
 The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the aforementioned federal anti-kickback and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. We may be subject to state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.  In addition, we may be subject to reporting requirements under state transparency laws, as well as state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government that otherwise restricts certain payments that may be made to health care providers and entities.
 Because we intend to commercialize products that could be reimbursed under federal and other governmental health care programs, we expect to develop a compliance program that establishes internal controls to facilitate adherence to the rules and health care program requirements.  Although compliance programs and adherence thereto may mitigate the risk of violation of and subsequent investigation and prosecution for violations of the laws described above, the risks cannot be eliminated entirely.  In addition, due to the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, individual imprisonment, disgorgement, exclusion of products from reimbursement under U.S. federal or state health care programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations.
 Government Regulation Outside the U.S.
 In addition to regulations in the U.S., we may be subject to a variety of regulations in foreign jurisdictions that govern, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we 
 13

obtain FDA approval for a product candidate, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing and sale of the product in those countries. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval described above. Some foreign jurisdictions have a drug product approval process similar to that in the U.S., which requires the submission of a clinical trial application much like the IND prior to the commencement of clinical studies. In Europe, for example, a clinical trial application, or CTA, must be submitted to each country’s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country’s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed.
 To obtain regulatory approval of a product candidate under European Union regulatory systems, we would be required to submit a Marketing Authorisation Application, which is similar to the NDA, except that, among other things, there are country-specific document requirements. For countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product approval, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the U.S. We face the risk that the resulting prices would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or any future partner of ours. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
 Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we employed five full-time employees, two in research and development and three in general and administrative. Given the differing characteristics of our product candidates, our approach is to engage consultants with experience in varying specialties to help us develop such candidates.  We engage numerous consultants that serve as an extension to our full-time employee base. We believe this philosophy enables us to access the expertise as needed without the need to expand the number of full-time employees and their associated costs. 
Company Information
 Until July 2017, our corporate name was Cerulean Pharma Inc., or Cerulean. Cerulean was incorporated in Delaware in December 2005. On July 19, 2017, Cerulean and Daré Bioscience Operations, Inc., a privately held Delaware corporation, or Private Daré, completed a transaction in which the holders of capital stock and securities convertible into capital stock of Private Daré, which holders are collectively referred to as the Private Daré Stockholders, sold their shares of capital stock of Private Daré to Cerulean in exchange for newly issued shares of Cerulean common stock. As a result of that transaction, Private Daré became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cerulean. As of immediately following the closing of that transaction: (i) the Private Daré Stockholders owned approximately 51% of the outstanding common stock of Cerulean, and (ii) the equity holders of Cerulean immediately prior to the closing, collectively, owned approximately 49% of the outstanding common stock of Cerulean. In connection with the transaction, Cerulean changed its name from “Cerulean Pharma Inc.” to “Daré Bioscience, Inc.”
 We and our wholly owned subsidiaries, Private Daré and Daré Bioscience Australia Pty LTD, operate in one business segment.
 On July 20, 2017, we effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of our common stock. All share and per share amounts of common stock, options and warrants in this report, including those amounts included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, have been restated for all periods to give retroactive effect to the reverse stock split.
 Available Information
 Our website is located at http://www.darebioscience.com. Information found on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We make our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments and exhibits to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, available free of charge on or through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Copies of our SEC filings are located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov.

14

