Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1.       Business.
Our Company
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Crimson,” “we,” “our” or “us” as used herein refer to Crimson Wine Group, Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Crimson has been conducting business since 1991. Prior to February 25, 2013, Crimson was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leucadia National Corporation (“Leucadia”). On February 1, 2013, Leucadia declared a pro rata dividend of all of the outstanding shares of Crimson’s common stock in a manner that was structured to qualify as a tax-free spin-off for U.S. federal income tax purposes (the “Distribution”). Leucadia’s common shareholders received one share of Crimson common stock for every ten common shares of Leucadia, with cash in lieu of fractional shares, on February 25, 2013. 
Crimson is in the business of producing and selling ultra-premium plus wines (i.e., wines that retail for over $16 per 750ml bottle). Crimson is headquartered in Napa, California and through its wholly-owned subsidiaries owns six wineries: Pine Ridge Vineyards, Archery Summit, Chamisal Vineyards, Seghesio Family Vineyards, Double Canyon and Seven Hills Winery. 
The wine Crimson makes comes from estate grown grapes as well as grapes and bulk wine purchased under contract and on the spot-market. Our business model is a combination of direct to consumer sales and wholesale distributor sales. References to cases of wine herein refer to nine-liter equivalent cases.
Mission, Purpose and Strategy
Our mission and purpose is as follows:
As owners of exceptional vineyards in premier wine growing regions, we are committed to crafting benchmark wines for the pleasure and benefit of those we serve.
Using our three strategic pillars of quality, focus and growth as guides, we seek to enrich lives through uniquely wonderful wine experiences. 
Quality. We own exceptional vineyards in premier winegrowing regions across the U.S. We farm our vineyards in a thoughtful, sustainable way with the goal of producing the highest quality grapes and the highest quality wines possible. As part of executing this strategy, Crimson currently owns or leases approximately 989 plantable acres of vineyard land in California, Oregon and Washington. The Company continues to assess other opportunities to enhance the quality of our vineyard holdings and wine portfolio.
Focus. We currently own six complementary estate-based winegrowing operations, with each having a unique varietal focus best suited to its specific appellation and region. We have a group of accomplished winegrowing teams who are each responsible for crafting benchmark wines from their respective premier wine growing regions. Many of Crimson’s brands are issued ratings or scores by local and national wine rating organizations and we believe our scores are a reflection of our focus on what we do best.
Growth. To support our quality and focus goals, all of our teams, including winegrowing, sales, marketing and administrative are driven towards continuous improvement. The direct to consumer business, which continued to grow in 2017, generates higher gross margins and we intend to continue emphasizing opportunities in this distribution channel in order to further our growth. Our wholesale distribution channel continues to drive volume sales to a wide customer market. Our wines are available in all states domestically through our network of over 50 distributors, and our export team served customers in over 35 countries through independent importers and brokers during 2017.
3

Recent Developments
In September 2017, we announced the grand opening of Double Canyon’s new state-of-the-art winemaking facility (the “Washington Winemaking Facility”) located in West Richland, Washington. The Washington Winemaking Facility has an initial production capacity of approximately 50,000 cases with significant room to grow.
Our Wineries and Vineyards
The following table summarizes the Company’s acreage as of December 31, 2017:

 | Plantable Acres | 
﻿ | Owned | Leased | | Total | Currently Planted
Pine Ridge Vineyards | 158 | | 2 | | 160 | 150
Archery Summit | 106 | | 17 | | 123 | 98 
Chamisal Vineyards | 99 | | — | | 99 | 86 
Seghesio Family Vineyards | 313 | | — | | 313 | 283
Double Canyon | 185 | | — | | 185 | 107
Seven Hills Winery | 109 | | — | | 109 | 98 
Total | 970 | | 19 | | 989 | 822

Pine Ridge Vineyards
Pine Ridge Vineyards was acquired in 1991 and has been conducting operations since 1978. Pine Ridge Vineyards owns acreage in five Napa Valley appellations—Stags Leap District, Rutherford, Oakville, Carneros and Howell Mountain. The winery facility at Pine Ridge Vineyards has a permitted annual wine production capacity of up to 300,000 gallons, which equates to approximately 126,000 cases of wine; however, current fermentation and processing capacity is limited to approximately 80,000 cases without additional capital investment. The facility includes areas and equipment for crush, fermentation, aging and bottling processes, and also has a tasting room, hospitality center and administrative offices. Built into the hillside for wine barrel storage are approximately 34,000 square feet of underground caves with a capacity to store over 4,000 barrels. In addition, there are special event dining areas both indoors and outdoors as well as in the underground caves.
The Pine Ridge Vineyards estate business is focused primarily on the production of high quality Cabernet Sauvignon and Bordeaux-style blends sold by Crimson under the Pine Ridge Vineyards brand name. Pine Ridge Vineyards also produces Chenin Blanc + Viognier, which is sold by Crimson under the Pine Ridge brand name and is made from purchased grapes and bulk wine juice processed at a third party custom winemaking facility with a contracted capacity of up to approximately 120,000 cases for the 2017 harvest year. Incremental capacity options are under consideration and available.
Archery Summit
Crimson started Archery Summit in 1993. Archery Summit owns acreage in the Willamette Valley appellation in Oregon. The winery facility at Archery Summit has a permitted annual wine production capacity of up to 50,000 gallons, which equates to approximately 21,000 cases of wine; however, current fermentation and processing capacity is limited to approximately 15,000 cases. The facility includes areas and equipment for crush, fermentation, aging and bottling processes, and also has a tasting room, hospitality center and administrative offices. The facility has approximately 8,300 square feet of underground caves for wine barrel storage with a capacity to store over 600 barrels. In addition, there are special event dining areas indoors as well as in the underground caves.
Archery Summit is focused primarily on producing estate grown, expressive single vineyard Pinot Noir from tightly spaced vines sold by Crimson under the Archery Summit brand name. Archery Summit also produces Vireton Pinot Gris, which is sold by Crimson under the Archery Summit brand name and is made from purchased grapes processed at a third party custom winemaking facility. Total contracted capacity for the 2017 harvest year was 3,000 cases.
4

Chamisal Vineyards
Chamisal Vineyards was acquired in 2008 and has been conducting operations since 1973. The Chamisal Vineyard was the first vineyard planted in the Edna Valley in 1973. The winery facility at Chamisal has a permitted annual wine production capacity of up to 480,000 gallons which equates to approximately 200,000 cases of wine. The facility includes areas and equipment for crush, fermentation, aging and bottling processes, as well as a tasting room, hospitality center and administrative offices. There are special event dining areas outdoors.
Chamisal is focused on producing benchmark Chardonnay, single vineyard Pinot Noir as well as a Stainless Chardonnay all produced from top vineyards in the Central Coast, including both purchased and estate grown grapes. The wines are sold by Crimson under the Chamisal Vineyards brand name. Chamisal also produces Malene Rosé, which is sold by Crimson under its own brand name and is made from purchased grapes processed at Chamisal’s facility. The Malene brand was launched with the 2015 vintage released to limited markets in May 2016 and launched across the U.S. in 2017. During 2018, the Malene brand will expand to include new wines which will be featured in an Airstream travel trailer purchased to help promote the brand at the winery and throughout the country. 
Seghesio Family Vineyards
Seghesio Family Vineyards was acquired in 2011 and has been conducting operations since 1895. Seghesio Family Vineyards owns acreage in two Sonoma County appellations—Alexander Valley and Russian River Valley. Seghesio Family Vineyards has a long history of growing and producing Zinfandel and Italian varietal wines in the Sonoma region of California. The winery facility at Seghesio Family Vineyards has a permitted annual wine production capacity of up to 404,000 gallons which equates to approximately 170,000 cases of wine. The facility includes areas and equipment for crush, fermentation, aging, bottling and warehousing processes, as well as a tasting room, private hospitality areas and administrative offices. There are indoor and outdoor special event dining areas. In Alexander Valley, Seghesio Family Vineyards also owns a historic non-operating winery, Victorian home and railroad depot, which Crimson intends to convert into educational, tasting and hospitality experiences and potentially incremental production facilities.
Seghesio Family Vineyards is focused on producing estate grown, world class Zinfandel and Italian varietal wines as well as a heritage Old Vine Zinfandel, Sonoma County Zinfandel and Defiant Red Blend produced from both purchased and estate grown grapes. The wines are sold by Crimson under the Seghesio Family Vineyards brand name.
Double Canyon 
Double Canyon vineyard land was acquired in 2005 and 2006 in the Horse Heaven Hills appellation in Washington. Starting with the 2010 vintage, these vineyards produced the first wines bottled under the Double Canyon brand name. Since the launch of the Double Canyon brand name, the vineyards have significantly expanded production. Starting with the 2015 harvest, the majority of the grapes from the Double Canyon vineyards were used for Double Canyon’s own brand.
In 2017 Double Canyon completed construction of the Washington Winemaking Facility, a 47,000-square-foot wine production facility in West Richland, Washington. The production facility has initial production capacity of 119,000 gallons which equates to approximately 50,000 cases of wine. The new production facility opened in time to process fruit from the 2017 harvest. Double Canyon will share production in the new facility with Seven Hills Winery.
Double Canyon is focused on producing estate grown, benchmark Cabernet Sauvignon as well as a Horse Heaven Hills Cabernet Sauvignon from both purchased and estate grown grapes. Double Canyon launched the Horse Heaven Hills Cabernet Sauvignon nationally in 2016, expanded into more markets and channels across the U.S. in 2017 and will continue to increase distribution in 2018.
Seven Hills Winery
Seven Hills Winery was acquired in January 2016 and has been conducting operations since 1988. Seven Hills Winery has established a storied wine program with a strong history of accolades for both Merlot and Bordeaux-style red blends. The winery facility at Seven Hills Winery has an estimated annual wine production capacity of up to 40,000 gallons which equates to approximately 16,000 cases of wine. Seven Hills Winery and tasting room are located in downtown Walla Walla in the Whitehouse Crawford building, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The 15,463 square-foot facility includes areas and equipment for crush, fermentation, aging, bottling processes, as well as a tasting room and administrative offices. Part of the building is leased to a tenant for use as an operating, full-service restaurant. Seven Hills Winery continues to increase distribution and volume in all channels, including expansion across all U.S. markets during 2017 and 2018. 
5

The Company also acquired land, primarily in the Walla Walla Valley, in December 2016 for use by Seven Hills Winery. This land purchase encompassed approximately 109 acres of vineyards and apple orchards, of which 98 acres are currently planted. These vineyards include 21 acres known as the Seven Hills Old Blocks, which are some of the oldest commercial plantings of Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon in the appellation. Seven Hills Winery produces estate grown, benchmark Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon from the Seven Hills Old Blocks and sells fruit to several other notable wineries. In addition, the 109 acres includes 14 acres in The Rocks District which is known for world class Rhone style wines, which is a new project under consideration. During 2017, Seven Hills Winery began replanting certain acres of the apple orchards into vineyards and will continue to assess the remaining portion of the apple orchards for either replanting or sale. During 2018, 36 acres planted with apple orchards were listed in the market for sale.
Competition
The markets for ultra-premium plus products in the wine industry are intensely competitive. Crimson’s wines compete domestically and internationally with premium or higher quality wines produced in Europe, South America, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, as well as in the United States. Crimson competes on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition and distribution capability, and the ultimate consumer has many choices of products from both domestic and international producers. A result of the intense competition has been, and may continue to be, upward pressure on Crimson’s selling and promotional expenses. Many of Crimson’s competitors are significantly larger with greater financial, production, distribution and marketing resources. The U.S. is dominated by three large wineries with production largely based in California, representing approximately 50% of the domestic U.S. case sales volume. Further, Crimson’s wines may be considered to compete with all alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
Demand for ultra-premium plus wines can rise and fall with general economic conditions, and is also significantly affected by grape supply. Crimson’s wines are typically sold at retail price points from $16 to $250 per bottle, however, in the wholesale channel, which represented 87% of Crimson’s case volume in the year ended December 31, 2017, 88% for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 89% for the year ended December 31, 2015, the majority of volume is in the $16 to $30 retail price range.
Business Segments
Crimson reports operating results in two segments: Wholesale and Direct to Consumer. These business segments reflect how the Company’s operations are evaluated by senior management and the structure of its internal financial reporting. Both financial and certain non-financial data are reported and evaluated to assist senior management with strategic planning. The Company evaluates performance based on the gross profit of the respective business segments. Selling expenses that can be directly attributable to the segment are included, however, centralized selling expenses and general and administrative expenses are not allocated between operating segments. Therefore, net income information for the respective segments is not available. Based on the nature of the Company’s business, revenue generating assets are utilized across segments. Therefore, discrete financial information related to segment assets and other balance sheet data is not available and that information continues to be aggregated. Further information about segments, including net sales, cost of sales, gross profit, directly attributable selling expenses, and contribution margin of the segments for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 can be found in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
໿
Sales and Marketing
Crimson focuses on brand development and distribution to increase revenues and profitability, which has included acquisitions of vineyards and wineries and the development of new brands with existing assets and the development of new direct sales outlets.
Crimson’s sales and marketing team coordinates the sales and distribution of its various brands, maintains domestic and export distributor relationships and oversees the timing and allocation of new releases. The sales team has employees in major markets in the U.S. and internationally and, where required, as brokers in certain markets. Crimson’s wines are available through many principal retail channels for premium table wines, including fine wine restaurants, hotels, specialty shops, supermarkets and club stores, in all states domestically, as well as cruise lines and over 35 countries throughout the world.
Crimson believes that the quality and locations of its wineries and tasting facilities help to create demand for its brands at the consumer level, which positively impacts sales to distributors as well. Crimson participates in many wine tasting and other promotional events throughout the country in order to increase awareness and demand for its products. Many of Crimson’s brands are issued ratings or scores by local and national wine rating organizations, and higher scores will usually translate into greater demand and higher pricing.
6

Wholesale
Crimson’s wines are primarily sold to distributors, who then sell to retailers and restaurants. Domestic sales of Crimson’s wines are made through over 50 independent wine and spirits distributors. International sales are made through independent importers and brokers. During 2017, domestic distributor sales represented 49% of net sales and export sales represented 5% of net sales. During 2017, one distributor represented 12% of Crimson’s net sales and no other single distributor represented 10% or more of net sales.
Direct to Consumer
As permitted under federal and local regulations, Crimson has been placing increasing emphasis on direct sales to consumers, which it is able to do through the Internet, wine clubs, and at the wineries’ tasting rooms. During 2017, direct sales to consumers represented 38% of net sales. Approximately 62% of the direct to consumer net sales were through wine clubs, 22% were through the wineries’ tasting rooms and the balance from e-commerce, special events and reimbursement for freight expense. Members typically join our wine clubs after visiting our tasting rooms at our various facilities, or after hearing about our wine clubs from other members. Our tasting rooms are located in vacation areas that typically attract consumers interested in winemaking and touring the area. Direct sales to consumers are more profitable for Crimson as it is able to sell its products at a price closer to retail prices rather than the wholesale price received from distributors, however, for certain direct sales offers, some of the profit is offset by freight subsidies.
Grape Supply
Crimson controls approximately 989 acres of vineyards in the Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Edna Valley in California, the Willamette Valley and The Rocks District in Oregon, the Horse Heaven Hills in Washington and the Walla Walla Valley across Washington and Oregon; approximately 822 acres of these vineyards are planted, with the majority of the unplanted acres in Washington. Crimson expects to continue vineyard development plans for non-producing acreage in California and Oregon properties. Newly planted vines take approximately three to five years to reach maturity and vineyards can be expected to have a useful life of at least 25 years before replanting is necessary. Depending on the site, soil and water conditions and spacing, Crimson’s experience has been that it costs approximately $10,000 to $100,000 per acre over a three year period to develop open land into a producing premium wine grape vineyard, before taking into account the cost of the land. During 2017, the average cost per acre placed into service was approximately $50,000 per acre.
In 2017, approximately 30% of Crimson’s total grape supply came from Crimson controlled vineyards. Crimson purchases the balance of its supply from approximately 95 independent growers. The grower contracts range from one-year spot market purchases to intermediate and long term-agreements. During 2017, no single grower represented 10% or more of Crimson’s grape supply.
Winemaking and grape growing are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditions can materially and adversely affect the quality and quantity of grapes available to Crimson thereby materially and adversely affecting the supply of Crimson’s products and its profitability.
The table below summarizes Crimson’s wine grape supply and production from the last three harvests:
໿

﻿ | Harvest Year
﻿ | 2017 | 2016 | | 2015
Estate grapes: | | | | 
Producing acres | 686 | | 628 | | 680 
Tons harvested | 2,008 | | 2,319 | | 2,072 
Tons per acre | 2.9 | | 3.7 | | 3.0 
All grapes and purchased juice (in equivalent tons): | | | | 
Estate grapes | 2,008 | | 2,319 | | 2,072 
Purchased grapes and juice | 4,661 | | 5,843 | | 4,564 
Total (in tons) | 6,669 | | 8,162 | | 6,636 
Total cases bottled | 396,000 | | 362,000 | | 425,000

7

The table below summarizes Crimson’s sales of grapes and bulk wine during the last three years:

﻿ | Year Ended December 31,
﻿ | 2017 | 2016 | | 2015
Grapes sold (in tons) | 425 | | 861 | | 370 
Bulk wine sold (in gallons) | 150,759 | | 194,140 | | 145,543
Total grape and bulk wine equivalent cases sold | 92,000 | | 142,000 | | 86,000 

Total cases shipped were approximately 342,000, 364,000 and 355,000 for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cases shipped are disclosed for informational purposes, but do not necessarily correspond to the vintage year the grapes are grown and crushed. Depending on the wine, the production cycle to bottled sales is anywhere from one to three years.
Winemaking
Crimson’s winemaking philosophy includes the use of the latest industry winemaking advances to complement making wine in the traditional manner by starting with high quality fruit and handling it as gently and naturally as possible all the way to the bottle. Each of Crimson’s wineries is equipped with modern crush, fermentation and storage equipment as well as technology that is focused on producing the highest quality wines for each of the varietals it produces.
Government Regulation
Wine production and sales are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Department of Treasury Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (“TTB”), the California Department of Alcohol Beverage Control (“CABC”) and other state and federal governmental authorities that regulate interstate sales, licensing, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising and other activities. In addition, federal and state authorities require warning labels on beverages for sale or distribution in the United States containing 0.5% of alcohol by volume or higher. Restrictions or taxes imposed by government authorities on the sale of wine could increase the retail price of wine, which could have an adverse effect on demand for wine in general. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees or excise taxes on wine, if enacted, could reduce demand for wine and have an adverse effect on Crimson’s business, negatively impacting Crimson’s results of operations and cash flows.
On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Public Law 115-97), which makes extensive changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (IRC), including provisions related to alcohol that are administered by TTB.  Those changes are effective January 1, 2018 and are applicable to any wine removed or imported during calendar years 2018 and 2019. The impact of the changes on the Company is a reduction in the Federal excise taxes imposed on wines with an alcohol volume between 14-16%, which will taxed at a $.50 per gallon reduction compared to the 2017 and prior tax rate. The new tax law also allows for certain volume production credits that the Company may be eligible to take which will further decrease the Company’s excise tax liability. The extent of the impact to the Company is still being investigated as more information becomes available from the TTB. 
Crimson is also subject to a broad range of federal and state regulatory requirements regarding its agricultural operations and practices. Crimson’s agricultural operations are subject to regulations governing the storage and use of fertilizers, fungicides, herbicides, pesticides, fuels, solvents and other chemicals. These regulations are subject to change and conceivably could have a significant impact on operating practices, chemical usage, and other aspects of Crimson’s business.
Seasonality
There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement and transportation of grapes. The wine industry in general historically experiences seasonal fluctuations in revenues and net income. Typically, Crimson has lower sales and net income during the first quarter and higher sales and net income during the fourth quarter due to seasonal holiday buying as well as wine club shipment timing. Crimson expects these trends to continue. 
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, Crimson employed 178 regular, full-time employees. Crimson also employs part-time and seasonal workers for its vineyard, production and hospitality operations. None of Crimson’s employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit and Crimson believes that its relationship with its employees is good.
8

Trademarks
Crimson maintains federal trademark registrations for its brands, proprietary products and certain logos, motifs and vineyard names. International trademark registrations are also maintained where it is appropriate to do so. Each of the United States trademark registrations is renewable indefinitely so long as the Company is making a bona fide usage of the trademark. The Company believes that its trademarks provide it with an important competitive advantage and has established a global network of attorneys, as well as branding, advertising and licensing professionals, to procure, maintain, protect, enhance and gain value from these registrations.
Investor Information
The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Accordingly, the Company files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy, information statements and other information regarding the Company and other issuers that file electronically.

The Company’s website is http://www.crimsonwinegroup.com. The Company also makes available through its website, without charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. 
Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information
Statements in this Report may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to current or historical facts. These statements may include words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan,” “intend,” “believe,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “likely,” and other words of similar expression.
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to materially differ from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, not to rely on these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted that may materially and adversely affect the Company’s actual results include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of the date hereof. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to modify or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report.
