Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


PART I | 
---------+--------------------------
Item 1. | Business 
Item 1A. | Risk Factors 
Item 1B. | Unresolved Staff Comments
Item 2. | Properties 
Item 3. | Legal Proceedings 
Item 4. | Mine Safety Disclosures 


2
-

Item 1. Business
Company History
 
Advanced Credit Technologies Inc. (“ACRT”, ‘We”or the “Company”) was incorporated in Nevada on February 5, 2008. The Company has never been the subject of any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding. The Company has never been involved in any material reclassification, merger, or consolidation.
 
On June 15, 2017, the Company created a private limited company in the United Kingdom named CyberloQ Technologies LTD. CyberloQ Technologies LTD is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and any business that the Company has in the United Kingdom will be transacted through CyberloQ Technologies LTD. However, to date CyberloQ Technologies LTD has not generated any revenue for the Company.
 
Current Overview of the Company
 
ACRT is a development-stage technology company focused on fraud prevention and credit management.
 
The Company offers a proprietary software platform branded as CyberloQ™ . While previously the Company licensed CyberloQ, in the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired the CyberloQ technology and is now the exclusive owner of CyberloQ.
 
CyberloQ is a banking fraud prevention technology that is offered to institutional clients in order to combat fraudulent transactions and unauthorized access to customer accounts. Through the use of a customer’s smart-phone, CyberloQ uses a multi-factor authentication system to control access to a bank card, transaction type or amount, website, database or digital service. The mobile applications for CyberloQ have been built, and the Company is currently beta-testing the technology in the banking ecosystem.
 
In addition to CyberloQ, the Company offers a web-based proprietary software platform under the brand name Turnscor® which allows customers to monitor and manage their credit from the privacy of their own homes. Although individuals can sign-up for Turnscor on their own, the Company also intends to market Turnscor to certain institutional clients, where appropriate, in conjunction with CyberloQ as a value-added benefit to offer their customers.
 
Moreover, on March 30, 2017 the Company entered into an Agreement with Swiss Venture Trust, a subsidiary of XCELL Security House, S.A. of Lausanne, Switzerland whose President, Lynnwood Farr, is a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. The equity exchange and revenue sharing agreements entered into between the two companies are currently in the process of being renegotiated, and the renegotiated terms of such contracts will be disclosed when finalized.
 
The Company currently has three full-time employees -- its President, Vice-President and Chief Technology Officer. There are no other employees of the Company at this time.
 
