Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. Business
The Company
Crocs, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively the “Company,” “Crocs,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) are engaged in the design, development, manufacturing, worldwide marketing, distribution, and sale of casual lifestyle footwear and accessories for men, women, and children. We strive to be the global leader in the sale of molded footwear characterized by functionality, comfort, color, and lightweight design. All of our products utilize our proprietary closed-cell resin, called CrosliteTM, along with a range of other materials. Our CrosliteTM material enables us to produce innovative, lightweight footwear. The Company, a Delaware corporation, is the successor to a Colorado corporation of the same name, and was originally organized in 1999 as a limited liability company. 
Products
Our product offerings have grown significantly since we first introduced the single-style clog in six colors in 2002. Recognized across the world for our iconic clog silhouette, we have taken the successful formula of a simple design aesthetic, paired it with modern comfort, and expanded into a wide variety of casual footwear products including sandals, flips and slides, shoes, and boots that meet the needs of the whole family.
At the heart of our brand are the Classic and Crocband clogs, our most iconic styles for adults and children - products that embody our innovation in molding, simplicity of design, and all-day comfort. A key differentiating feature of our footwear products is our proprietary closed-cell resin CrosliteTM material, which is uniquely suited for comfort and functionality. The unique look and feel of the Classic clog can be experienced throughout our entire product line due to the use and design of CrosliteTM. For further information on CrosliteTM, see ‘Raw Materials’ below.
We strive to provide our global consumer with comfortable, casual, colorful, and innovative footwear styles. Our collections are designed to meet the needs of the family by focusing on key wearing occasions. Our goal is to deliver casual product assortments with all of the comfort, features, and benefits Crocs is known for. We enjoy licensing partnerships with Disney, Marvel, Nickelodeon, and Warner Bros., among others, which allow us to bring popular global franchises and characters to life on our product in a fun, exciting way.
Sales and Marketing
Each season we focus on presenting a compelling brand story and experience for our new product introductions as well as our on-going core products. Our marketing efforts center on presenting our clog and sandal silhouettes. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, total marketing costs, inclusive of advertising, production, promotional, and agency expenses, were approximately $59.1 million, $56.0 million, and $58.2 million, respectively.
We run our business across three major geographic regions: the Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe, which are discussed in more detail in ‘Business Segments and Geographic Information’ below. We prioritize five core markets including: (i) the United States, (ii) Japan, (iii) China, (iv) South Korea and (v) Germany. These countries have been identified as large-scale geographies where we believe the greatest opportunities for growth exist. We are also concentrating our marketing efforts on these countries, in an effort to increase customer awareness of both our brand and our full product range. 
Distribution Channels
The broad appeal of our footwear has allowed us to market our products through a wide range of distribution channels. We currently sell our products in more than 90 countries, primarily through three distribution channels: wholesale, retail, and e-commerce. Our wholesale channel includes domestic wholesalers as well as international wholesalers and distributors; our retail channel includes company-operated stores; and our e-commerce channel includes company-operated e-commerce sites.
Wholesale Channel
During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, approximately 52.4%, 52.7%, and 54.2% of revenues, respectively, were derived through our wholesale channel. Wholesale customers include family footwear retailers, national and regional retail chains, sporting goods stores, independent footwear retailers, and e-tailers.
2

Outside the United States, in addition to wholesale customers, we use distributors in select markets where we believe such arrangements are preferable to direct sales. These distributors purchase products pursuant to a price list and are granted the right to resell the products in a defined territory, usually a country or group of countries. Our typical distribution agreements have terms of one to five years and have minimum purchase requirements that allow us to terminate or renegotiate the contract if such minimum requirements are not met. No single wholesale customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues for any of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.
Retail Channel
During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, approximately 33.0%, 34.7%, and 34.7%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales through our retail channel. We operate our retail channel through three platforms: company-operated full-price retail and outlet stores, kiosks, and store-in-store locations, which enable us to promote the breadth of our product offering in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. With the worldwide consumer shift toward e-commerce, we are carefully managing and reducing our retail fleet, especially full-priced retail stores, and focusing on enhancing the profitability of this channel. We opened 19 company-operated stores during the year ended December 31, 2017 and closed 130 company-operated stores, including 37 transfers of company-operated stores to distributors. This activity is being taken in connection with the store reduction plan announced early in 2017, pursuant to which we intend to reduce our net retail store count by 160 as of December 31, 2018, compared to December 31, 2016.
Full-Price Retail Stores
Our company-operated full-price retail stores allow us to effectively showcase the full extent of our product ranges to consumers and provide us with the opportunity to interact with our consumers directly. The optimal space for our retail stores is between approximately 1,500 and 1,800 square feet, and is located in high-traffic shopping malls or districts. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we closed 73 and opened 6 full-price retail stores. As of December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we operated 161, 228, and 275 full-price retail stores, respectively. This net reduction of 67 company-operated full-price retail stores during the year ended December 31, 2017 is in line with our continued focus on rationalization of our retail store fleet.
Outlet Stores
Our company-operated outlet stores allow us to sell discontinued and overstock merchandise directly to consumers at discounted prices. We also sell full-priced products in certain of our outlet stores as well as built-for-outlet products in certain stores. Outlet stores are similar in size to our full-price retail stores; however, they are generally located within outlet shopping centers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we closed 30 outlet stores and opened 13 outlet stores. As of December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we operated 215, 232, and 186 outlet stores, respectively.
Kiosk / Store-in-Store Locations
Our company-operated kiosks and store-in-store locations allow us to market specific product lines with the further flexibility to tailor products to consumer preferences in shopping malls and other high foot traffic areas. With efficient use of retail space, and limited capital investment, we believe that kiosks and store-in-store locations can be an effective vehicle for marketing our products in certain geographic areas. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we closed 27 kiosk and store-in-store locations and opened no new kiosk and store-in-store locations. As of December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we operated 71, 98, and 98 kiosks and store-in-store locations, respectively.
3

Company-Operated Retail Stores
The following table illustrates the net change in 2017 in the number of our company-operated retail stores by reportable operating segment and country:

 | December 31, 2016 | Opened | | Closed/Transferred(1) | December 31, 2017
Americas | | | | | 
United States | 174 | | 2 | | 15 | | 161 | 
Canada | 10 | | — | | 1 | | 9 | 
Puerto Rico | 6 | | — | | 1 | | 5 | 
Total Americas | 190 | | 2 | | 17 | | 175 | 
Asia Pacific | | | | | 
Korea | 87 | | 4 | | 5 | | 86 | 
China | 79 | | 9 | | 46 | | 42 | 
Japan (2) | 44 | | — | | 24 | 30 | | 20
Hong Kong | 17 | | 1 | | 3 | | 15 | 
Singapore | 18 | | — | | 4 | | 14 | 
Australia (2) | 13 | | — | | 4 | | 9 | 
United Arab Emirates | 12 | | 1 | | 13 | | — | 
Total Asia Pacific | 270 | | 15 | | 99 | | 186 | 
Europe | | | | | 
Russia | 36 | | 1 | | 1 | | 36 | 
Germany | 18 | | — | | 3 | | 15 | 
France | 10 | | — | | — | | 10 | 
Austria | 6 | | — | | — | | 6 | 
Netherlands | 5 | | 1 | | 2 | | 4 | 
Spain | 5 | | — | | 1 | | 4 | 
Great Britain | 7 | | — | | 4 | | 3 | 
Finland | 4 | | — | | 1 | | 3 | 
Other | 7 | | — | | 2 | | 5 | 
Total Europe | 98 | | 2 | | 14 | | 86 | 
Total | 558 | | 19 | | 130 | | 447 | 

(1) We completed the transfer of 37 company-operated stores in the Middle East and China to distributors during the period.
(2) We reclassified five stores between Australia and Japan as of December 31, 2016.
E-commerce Channel
As of December 31, 2017, we offered our products through 13 company-operated e-commerce sites worldwide. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, approximately 14.6%, 12.6%, and 11.1%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales through our e-commerce channel. Our e-commerce presence enables us to have increased access to our consumers and provides us with an opportunity to educate them about our products and brand. Improving our e-commerce capabilities is one of our key growth strategies, as we continue to leverage increasingly sophisticated digital technologies to enhance the consumer experience and drive sales. We also offer our products through third-party e-commerce sites (e-tailers) and marketplaces. Revenues from third-party e-commerce sites and marketplaces where we have a wholesale relationship are reported in our wholesale channel.
Business Segments and Geographic Information
We have three reportable operating segments based on the geographic nature of our operations: Americas, Asia Pacific, and Europe. Other businesses aggregates insignificant operating segments that do not meet the reportable operating segment threshold, including company-operated manufacturing facilities located in Mexico and Italy as well as corporate operations. See additional discussion of our segments and geographic information, including results of operations and assets by segment and geography in Note 14 — Operating Segments and Geographic Information in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
4

Americas
The Americas segment consists of revenues and expenses related primarily to product sales in North and South America. Regional wholesale channel customers consist of a broad range of family footwear and sporting goods stores, e-tailers, and independent retailers and distributors. The Americas retail channel sells directly to consumers through 175 company-operated retail stores in the Americas as well as through our e-commerce site. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenues from the Americas segment were approximately 46.9%, 45.1%, and 43.7% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. Specifically, revenues from the United States were approximately 38.0%, 37.1%, and 35.8% of our consolidated revenues, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.
Asia Pacific
The Asia Pacific segment consists of revenues and expenses related primarily to product sales throughout Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Africa, and the Middle East. The Asia Pacific wholesale channel consists of sales to a broad range of retailers similar to the wholesale channel we have established in the Americas segment, plus distributors in select markets. We also sell products directly to consumers through 186 company-operated retail stores located in Asia Pacific as well as through our e-commerce sites. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenues from our Asia Pacific segment were 36.1%, 38.1%, and 39.0% of our consolidated revenues, respectively.
Europe
The Europe segment consists of revenues and expenses related primarily to product sales throughout Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and Russia. The Europe segment wholesale channel customers consist of a broad range of retailers, similar to the wholesale channel we have established in the Americas segment, plus distributors in select markets. We also sell our products directly to consumers through 86 company-operated retail stores located in Europe as well as through our e-commerce sites. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenues from the Europe segment were 16.9%, 16.7 %, and 17.3% of our consolidated revenues, respectively.
Raw Materials
CrosliteTM, our branded proprietary closed-cell resin, is the primary material formulation used in the majority of our footwear and some of our accessories. CrosliteTM material is formulated to create soft, durable, extremely lightweight, water-resistant footwear that increases comfort. We continue to invest in research and development in order to refine our materials to enhance these properties and to develop new properties for specific applications.
CrosliteTM material is produced by compounding elastomer resins that we or one of our third-party processors purchase from major chemical manufacturers, together with certain other production inputs such as color dyes. We have identified multiple suppliers that produce the elastomer resins used in the CrosliteTM material. In the future, we may identify and utilize materials produced by other suppliers as an alternative to, or in addition to, the elastomer resins we currently use in the production of our proprietary material. All of the other raw materials that we use to produce CrosliteTM products are readily available for purchase from multiple suppliers.
Since our inception in 2002, we have increased the number of footwear products we offer, and some of these products are constructed using leather, textile fabrics, or other non-CrosliteTM materials. We, or our third-party manufacturers, obtain these materials from a number of third-party sources and we believe these materials are broadly available. 
Research, Design, and Development
We continue to leverage our expertise and innovation in injection molding to create a fresh, distinctive point of view in the casual footwear market and to deliver a winning combination of comfort, style, value and versatility to our consumer. We dedicate significant resources to product design and development based on opportunities we identify in the marketplace. Our design and development process is highly collaborative and we continually strive to improve our development function so we can bring products to market quickly, while maintaining product quality. We spent $13.4 million, $11.9 million, and $14.0 million on research, design, and development activities for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.
Manufacturing and Sourcing
Our strategy is to maintain a flexible, globally-diversified, low-cost manufacturing base. We currently have company-operated production facilities in Mexico and Italy. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our footwear styles.
5

In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we manufactured approximately 13.4%, 14.6%, and 11.3%, respectively, of our footwear products internally. We sourced the remaining footwear production from multiple third-party manufacturers primarily in China and Vietnam. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our largest third-party manufacturer, operating in both China and Vietnam, produced approximately 41.3%, 43.2%, and 47.5%, respectively, and our second largest third-party manufacturer, operating in Vietnam, produced approximately 19.0%,11.5%, and 9.4%, respectively, of our third-party footwear unit volume. We believe that the manufacturing capabilities required to produce our footwear are broadly available.
Distribution and Logistics
On an ongoing basis, we look to enhance our distribution and logistics network to further streamline our supply chain, increase our speed to market, and lower operating costs. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we stored our raw material and finished goods inventories in company-operated warehouse and distribution facilities located in the United States, Mexico, the Netherlands, Japan, Russia, and Italy. We also utilized third-party operated distribution centers located in China, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Korea, Singapore, India, Russia, Brazil, Puerto Rico, and Italy. As of December 31, 2017, our company-operated warehouse and distribution facilities provided us with approximately 0.9 million square feet and our third-party operated distribution facilities provided us with approximately 0.2 million square feet. We also ship a portion of our products directly to our wholesale customers from our internal and third-party manufacturers.
Intellectual Property and Trademarks
We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, trade dress, and patent protections to establish, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our product designs, brands, materials, and research and development efforts, although no such methods can afford complete protection. We own or license the material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution, and sale of all of our products, both domestically and internationally, in most countries where our products are currently either sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include the Crocs logo and the Crocs word mark, both of which are registered or pending registration in the U.S., the European Union, Japan, Taiwan, China, and Canada among other countries. We also have registrations or pending trademark applications for other marks and logos in various countries around the world.
In the U.S., our patents are generally in effect for up to 20 years from the date of filing the patent application. Our trademarks registered within and outside of the U.S. are generally valid as long as they are in use and their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to become generic. We believe our trademarks and patents are crucial to the successful marketing and sale of our products. We will continue to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, the trademarks and patents covering the product designs and branding that we utilize today and those we develop in the future. We aggressively police our patents, trademarks, and copyrights and pursue those who infringe upon them, both domestically and internationally, as we deem necessary.
We consider the formulations of the materials covered by our trademark CrosliteTM and used to produce our shoes, to be a valuable trade secret. The CrosliteTM material formulations are manufactured through a process that combines a number of components in various proportions to achieve the properties for which our products are known. We use multiple suppliers to source these components but protect the formulations by using exclusive supply agreements for key components, confidentiality agreements with our third-party processors, and by requiring our employees to execute confidentiality agreements concerning the protection of our confidential information. Other than our third-party processors, we are unaware of any third party using our formulations in the production of shoes. We believe the comfort and utility of our products depend on the properties achieved from the compounding of the CrosliteTM material and constitute a key competitive advantage for us, and we intend to continue to vigorously protect this trade secret.
We also actively combat counterfeiting through monitoring of the global marketplace. We use our employees, sales representatives, distributors, and retailers, as well as outside investigators, attorneys and customs agents, to police against infringing products by encouraging them to notify us of any suspect products and to assist law enforcement agencies. Our sales representatives and distributors are also educated on our patents, pending patents, trademarks, and trade dress to assist in preventing potentially infringing products from obtaining retail shelf space. The laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the U.S., and, therefore, we may have difficulty obtaining legal protection for our intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions.
Seasonality
Due to the seasonal nature of our footwear, which is more heavily focused on styles suitable for warm weather, revenues generated during our fourth quarter are typically less than revenues generated during our first three quarters, when the northern hemisphere is experiencing warmer weather. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other 
6

factors, including the timing of new model introductions, general economic conditions, and consumer confidence. Accordingly, results of operations and cash flows for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of expected results for any other quarter or for any other year.
Backlog 
We receive a significant portion of orders from our wholesale customers and distributors that remain unfilled as of any date and, at that point, represent orders scheduled to be shipped at a future date. We refer to these unfilled orders as backlog, which can be canceled by our customers at any time prior to shipment. Backlog only relates to wholesale and distributor orders for the next season and current season fill-in orders, and excludes potential sales in our retail and e-commerce channels. Backlog as of a particular date is affected by a number of factors, including seasonality, manufacturing schedules and the timing of product shipments. Backlog also is affected by the timing of customers' orders and product availability. Due to these factors and business model differences around the globe, we believe backlog is an imprecise indicator of future revenues that may be achieved in a fiscal period and cannot be relied upon.
Competition
The global casual, athletic, and fashion footwear markets are highly competitive. Although we believe that we do not compete directly with any single company with respect to the entire spectrum of our products, we believe portions of our wholesale, retail, and e-commerce businesses compete with companies including, but not limited to: Nike Inc., adidas AG, Under Armour, Inc., Deckers Outdoor Corporation, Skechers USA, Inc., Steve Madden, Ltd., Wolverine World Wide, Inc. and VF Corporation. Our company-operated retail locations and e-commerce sites also compete with footwear retailers such as Genesco, Inc., Macy’s Inc., Dillard’s, Inc., Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc., The Finish Line Inc., and Foot Locker, Inc.
The principal elements of competition in these markets include brand awareness, product functionality, design, comfort, quality, pricing, customer service, and marketing and distribution. We believe that our unique footwear designs, our CrosliteTM material, our prices, our product line, and our distribution network continue to position us well in the marketplace. However, a number of companies in the casual footwear industry have greater financial resources, more comprehensive product lines, broader market presence, longer standing relationships with wholesalers, longer operating histories, greater distribution capabilities, stronger brand recognition, and greater marketing resources than we have. Furthermore, we face competition from new companies which have been attracted to the market with products similar to ours as the result of the unique design and success of our footwear products.
Effects of Changes in Exchange Rates on Translated Results of International Subsidiaries
As a global company, we have significant revenues and costs denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We are exposed to the risk of gains and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on monetary assets and liabilities within our international subsidiaries that are denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries’ functional currencies. Likewise, our U.S. companies are also exposed to the risk of gains and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar.
We have experienced, and will continue to experience, changes in international currency rates, impacting both results of operations and the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to buy or sell various foreign currencies to selectively protect against volatility in the value of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these forward contracts are recognized in earnings in the period that they occur.
Changes in exchange rates have a direct effect on our reported U.S. Dollar consolidated financial statements because we translate the operating results and financial position of our international subsidiaries to U.S. Dollars using current period exchange rates. Specifically, we translate the statements of operations of our foreign subsidiaries into the U.S. Dollar reporting currency using exchange rates in effect during each reporting period. As a result, comparisons of reported results between reporting periods may be impacted significantly due to differences in the exchange rates used to translate the operating results of our international subsidiaries. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the impact of the change in foreign exchange rates on our U.S. Dollar consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.
7

Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 4,382 full-time, part-time, and seasonal employees, of which approximately 2,808 were engaged in retail-related functions.
Available Information
We file with, or furnish to, the SEC reports including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports are available free of charge on our corporate website (www.crocs.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can be obtained at www.sec.gov or at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any stockholder who submits a request in writing to Integrated Corporate Relations, 761 Main Avenue, Norwalk, CT 06851. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
8

