Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 
 Description of Business and Industry 
 The principal business of Superior Industries International, Inc. (referred to herein as the “company” or “we,” “us” and “our”) is the design and manufacture of aluminum wheels for sale to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and aftermarket customers. We believe we are the #1 North American aluminum wheel supplier, the #3 European OEM supplier and #1 European aftermarket supplier. Our OEM aluminum wheels are primarily sold for factory installation, as either standard equipment or optional equipment, on approximately 180 vehicle models manufactured by Audi, BMW, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (“FCA”), Ford, General Motors (“GM”), Jaguar-Land Rover, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Tesla, Toyota, Volkswagen and Volvo. North America and Europe represent the principal markets for our products but we have a global presence and opportunities with North American, European and Asian OEMs. The following chart below included twelve months of proforma sales for our European operations for informational purposes. All of the other charts in this document include seven months of sales for our European operations, which aligns with the acquisition date. On May 30, 2017, we acquired a majority interest in Uniwheels AG (“Uniwheels”), which is also referred to as our “European operations.” 
 

CUSTOMER SALES PERCENTAGES FOR 2016 AND 2017 ASSUMING 12 MONTHS OF UNIWHEELS

With the acquisition of our European operations in 2017, we diversified our customer base from predominately North American to include Europe and North America. The following chart demonstrates the shift in diversification of our business from 2016 to 2017. 
 

DIVERSIFICATION


1 


 Uniwheels is a European supplier of OEM aluminum wheels and also a supplier of European aftermarket aluminum wheels. As a result of the acquisition, we have expanded into the European market, broadened our product portfolio and acquired a significant customer share with European OEMs, including Audi, Jaguar-Land Rover, Mercedes Benz and Volvo. The acquisition is not only complementary in terms of customers, market coverage and product offerings but also very much aligned with our strategic direction with a focus on larger diameter wheels, premium finishes, luxury brands and specialty wheels for high performance motorsport racing vehicles, all providing enhanced opportunity for higher value added business. With the acquisition, our global reach encompasses sales to nine of the ten largest OEMs in the world with sales surpassing $1.1 billion. The following charts show key highlights of 2017 and sales by major customer based on seven months of Uniwheels. The chart includes net income from operations and Adjusted EBITDA, which is a key metric we use to measure operating performance but is not calculated according to GAAP. 
 

SALES BY CUSTOMER AND PROFITABILITY


* Income from operations in 2017 includes $44.3 million in costs related to acquisition costs and integration costs. | * See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of this annual report for a reconciliation of our Adjusted EBIDA to income from operations. 

 Historically, the focus of the Company was on providing wheels for relatively high-volume programs with lower degrees of competitive differentiation. In order to improve our strategic position and better serve our customers, we are augmenting our product portfolio with wheels containing higher technical content and greater differentiation. We believe this direction is consistent with current trends in the market and needs of our customers. To achieve this objective, we have invested and continue to invest in new manufacturing capabilities in order to produce more sophisticated finishes and larger diameter products, which typically provide higher value in the market. The acquisition of our European operations and the construction of a new finishing facility align with this strategic mission. We have constructed a physical vapor deposition (“PVD”) finishing facility, which we believe will establish us as the first OEM automotive wheel manufacturer to have this capability in-house in North America and Europe. PVD is a wheel coating process that creates bright chrome-like surfaces in an environmentally friendly manner. 
 Demand for our products is mainly driven by light-vehicle production levels in North America and Europe. The North American light-vehicle production level in 2017 was 17.0 million vehicles, a 4.7 percent decrease from 2016. Despite this decrease, the 2017 North American production level was one of the highest in the history of the industry. In Europe, the passenger car and light duty truck vehicle production level in 2017 was 18.7 million vehicles, a 0.3 percent increase over 2016. We track annual production rates based on information from Ward’s Automotive Group, as well as other sources. The majority of our customers’ wheel programs are awarded to suppliers two or three years in advance. Our purchase orders with OEMs are typically specific to a particular vehicle model. 
 Raw Materials 
 The raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and are obtained through numerous suppliers with whom we have established trade relations. Purchased aluminum accounted for the vast majority of 
 
2 


  our total raw material requirements during 2017. Our aluminum requirements are met through purchase orders with major producers, with physical supply primarily obtained from in-country production locations. Generally, aluminum purchase orders are fixed as to minimum and maximum quantities, which the producers must supply and we must purchase during the term of the orders. During 2017, we were able to successfully secure aluminum commitments from our primary suppliers to meet production requirements, and we anticipate being able to source aluminum requirements to meet our expected level of production in 2018. We procure other raw materials through numerous suppliers with whom we have established trade relationships. We also enter into commodity forward contracts and swaps covering up to twelve months aftermarket production volume in which the aluminum price is linked to the London Metal Exchange (LME) index. Moreover, in both our North American and European businesses, OEM wheel sale prices are adjusted for fluctuating aluminum commodity prices based on changes in commodity indices. 
 When market conditions warrant, we may also enter into purchase commitments to secure the supply of certain commodities used in the manufacture of our products, such as aluminum, natural gas and other raw materials. 
 Customer Dependence 
 We have proven our ability to be a consistent producer of high quality aluminum wheels with the capability to meet our customers’ price, quality, delivery and service requirements. We strive to continually enhance our relationships with our customers through continuous improvement programs, not only through our manufacturing operations but in the engineering, design, development and quality areas as well. These key business relationships have resulted in multiple vehicle supply contract awards with our key customers in the past few years. 
 Ford and GM were our only customers individually accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated trade sales in 2017. Net sales to these customers, as well as Toyota, in 2017, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (dollars in millions): 
 

 | 2015 | | | 2016 | | | 2017 
 | Percent ofNet Sales | | | Dollars | | | Percent ofNet Sales | Dollars | | Percent ofNet Sales | | Dollars
Ford | | 44 | % | | $ | 315.1 | | 38 | % | $ | 271.4 | | 22 | % | $ | 248.8
GM | | 24 | % | | $ | 175.6 | | 30 | % | $ | 216.4 | | 20 | % | $ | 217.5
Toyota | | 14 | % | | $ | 104.5 | | 14 | % | $ | 98.4 | | 9 | % | $ | 103.8

 In addition, sales to Nissan and Volkswagen Group (“VW”), which includes Audi, exceeded 5 percent of sales during 2017, and sales to Mercedes and Volvo for the seven months following the acquisition of Uniwheels exceeded 5 percent during 2017 on an annualized basis. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to Ford, GM, Toyota, Nissan, VW, Mercedes or Volvo would have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 
 Foreign Operations 
 We manufacture a significant portion of our North American products in Mexico that are sold both in the United States and Mexico. Net sales of wheels manufactured in our Mexico operations in 2017 totaled $608.0 million and represented 83.0 percent of our total net sales in North America. We anticipate that the portion of our products produced in Mexico versus the United States will remain comparable in 2018. Net property, plant and equipment used in our operations in Mexico totaled $214.5 million at December 31, 2017. The overall cost for us to manufacture wheels in Mexico currently is lower than in the United States, due to lower labor costs as a result of lower prevailing wage rates. 
 Similarly, we manufacture the majority of our products for the European market in Poland, which are sold throughout Europe. Net sales of wheels manufactured in our Poland operations for the seven months following 
 
3 


  the acquisition were $220.4 million and represented 58.7 percent of our total net sales in Europe in 2017. Net property, plant and equipment used in our operations in Poland totaled $227.3 million at December 31, 2017. Similar to our Mexican operations, the overall cost to manufacture wheels in Poland is substantially lower than in both the United States and Germany at the present time due principally to lower labor costs. 
 Cost of manufacturing our product in Mexico, Germany and Poland may be affected by changes in cost structures, tariffs imposed by the United States, trade protection laws, policies and other regulations affecting trade and investments, social, political, labor, or general economic conditions. Other factors that can affect the business and financial results of our Mexican, German, Polish and U.S. operations include, but are not limited to, currency effects of the Peso, Euro and Zloty currencies, availability and competency of personnel and tax regulations. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors - Our international operations and international trade agreements make us vulnerable to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries that can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” and Item 1A, “Risk Factors - Fluctuations in foreign currencies may adversely impact our financial condition.” 
 Net Sales Backlog 
 Our customers typically award programs several years before actual production is scheduled to begin. Each year, the automotive manufacturers introduce new models, update existing models and discontinue certain models. In this process, we may be selected as the supplier on a new model, we may continue as the supplier on an updated model or we may lose a new or updated model to a competitor. The Company’s estimated net sales may be impacted by various assumptions, including new program vehicle production levels, customer price reductions, currency exchange rates and program launch timing. Our customers may terminate the awarded programs at any time or reduce order levels. Therefore, expected net sales information does not represent firm commitments or firm orders. We estimate that we have been awarded programs covering approximately 89 percent of our manufacturing capacity over the next three years. 
Competition 
 Competition in the market for aluminum wheels is based primarily on delivery, overall customer service, price, quality and technology. We are the largest producer of aluminum wheels for OEM installations in North America and one of the largest in Europe. We currently supply approximately 20 percent and 14 percent of the aluminum wheels installed on passenger cars and light-duty trucks in North America and Europe, respectively. 
 Competition is global in nature with a significant volume of exports from Asia into North America. There are several competitors with facilities in North America but we estimate that we have more than twice the North American production capacity of any competitor. Some of the key competitors in North America include Central Motor Wheel of America (“CMWA”), CITIC Dicastal Co., Ltd., Prime Wheel Corporation, and Ronal. In 2017, the European Union renewed a tariff on aluminum wheels from China, which lessens the competitive pressures from Chinese competitors in that market. Key European competitors include Ronal (Switzerland), Borbet (Germany) and CMS (Turkey). The accessories market, by contrast, is heavily fragmented. We are the leading manufacturer of alloy wheels in the European aftermarket. Key competitors include Alcar (Austria), Brock (Germany), Borbet (Germany), ATU (Germany) and Mak (Italy). See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 
 Steel and other types of wheels also compete with our products. According to Ward’s Automotive Group, the aluminum wheel penetration rate on passenger cars and light-duty trucks in North America was 87 percent for the 2017 model year and 81 percent for the 2016 model year, compared to 79 percent for the 2015 model year. The aluminum wheel penetration rate on passenger cars and light-duty trucks in Europe was 70 percent in 2017. We expect the aluminum wheel penetration rate to continue to increase. However, several factors can affect this rate including price, fuel economy requirements and styling preference. Although aluminum wheels currently are more costly than steel, aluminum is a lighter material than steel, which is desirable for fuel efficiency and generally viewed as aesthetically superior to steel and, thus, more desirable to the OEMs and their customers. 
 
4 


 Research and Development 
 Our policy is to continuously review, improve and develop our engineering capabilities to satisfy our customer requirements in the most efficient and cost-effective manner available. We strive to achieve this objective by attracting and retaining top engineering talent and by maintaining the latest state-of-the-art computer technology to support engineering development. Fully developed engineering centers located in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and in Lüdenscheid, Germany support our research and development manufacturing needs. We also have a technical sales function at our corporate headquarters in Southfield, Michigan that maintains a complement of engineering staff located near some of our largest customers’ headquarters and engineering and purchasing offices. 
 Research and development costs (primarily engineering and related costs), which are expensed as incurred, are included in cost of sales in our consolidated income statements. Research and development costs during each of the last three years were $7.7 million in 2017, $3.8 million in 2016 and $2.6 million in 2015. 
 Government Regulation 
 Safety standards in the manufacture of vehicles and automotive equipment have been established under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended. We believe that we are in compliance with all federal standards currently applicable to OEM suppliers and to automotive manufacturers. 
Environmental Compliance 
 Our manufacturing facilities, like most other manufacturing companies, are subject to solid waste, water and air pollution control standards mandated by federal, state and local laws. Violators of these laws are subject to fines and, in extreme cases, plant closure. We believe our facilities are in material compliance with all presently applicable standards. However, costs related to environmental protection may grow due to increasingly stringent laws and regulations. The cost of environmental compliance was approximately $0.6 million in 2017, $0.4 million in 2016 and $0.7 million in 2015. We expect that future environmental compliance expenditures will approximate these levels and will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, climate change legislation or regulations restricting emission of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the vehicles that use our products. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors - We are subject to various environmental laws” of this Annual Report. 
 In response to climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is on the agenda of the European authorities. As a result, the EU has made a commitment in an EU Directive to reduce emissions by at least 20 percent by the year 2020 (measured on 1990 levels). Passenger cars have been identified as a key causal factor in emissions. A central element of the regulation is an average CO2 emissions target of 95g CO2 / km per new car registration. From 2025 this target has been further tightened to an average of between 68 and 78g CO2 / km. This value should be reached by means of improvements to engine technology and innovative technologies in terms of weight reduction. 
 Employees 
 As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 7,800 full-time employees and 350 contract employees compared to 4,189 full-time employees and 682 contract employees at December 31, 2016. None of our employees in North America are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Uniwheels’ subsidiary, Uniwheels Production (Germany) GmbH (“UPG”), is a member of the employers’ association for the metal and electronic industry in North Rhine-Westphalia (METALL NRW Verband der Metall und Elektro-Industrie North Rhine-Westphalia e.V.) and is subject to various collective bargaining agreements for the metal and electronic industry in North Rhine-Westphalia entered into by the employers’ association with the trade union IG Metall. These collective bargaining agreements include provisions relating to wages, holidays, and partial retirement. It is estimated that approximately 410 employees of Uniwheels employed at UPG in Germany were unionized 
 
5 


  and/or subject to collective bargaining agreements in 2017. UPG and Uniwheels Automotive (Germany) GmbH (operating a joint workers council) operate a statutory workers council and Uniwheels Production (Poland) Sp. z o.o. (“UPP”) operates a voluntary workers council. The increase in employees in 2017 was due to the acquisition of the Uniwheels business in Europe. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.” 
 Fiscal Year End 
 The fiscal year of 2017 consisted of the 53-week period ended December 31, 2017 and the 2016 and 2015 fiscal years consisted of the 52-week periods ended on December 25, 2016 and December 27, 2015, respectively. Historically, our fiscal year ended on the last Sunday of the calendar year. Uniwheels, our European operation acquired on May 30, 2017, is reported on a calendar year end. These fiscal periods align as of December 31, 2017. Beginning in 2018, both our North American and European operations will be on a calendar fiscal year with each month ending on the last day of the calendar month. For convenience of presentation, all fiscal years are referred to as beginning as of January 1, and ending as of December 31, but actually reflect our financial position and results of operations for the periods described above. 
Segment Information 
 As a result of the Uniwheels acquisition, the company expanded into the European market and extended its customer base to include the principal European OEMs. As a consequence, we have realigned our executive management structure, organization and operations to focus on our performance in our North American and European regions. Accordingly, we have concluded that our North American and European businesses represent separate operating segments in view of significantly different markets and customers within each of these regions. Financial information about our operating segments is contained in Note 6, “Business Segments” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report. 
Seasonal Variations 
 The automotive industry is cyclical and varies based on the timing of consumer purchases of vehicles, which in turn varies based on a variety of factors such as general economic conditions, availability of consumer credit, interest rates and fuel costs. While there have been no significant seasonal variations in the past few years, production schedules in our industry can vary significantly from quarter to quarter to meet the scheduling demands of our customers. Typically, our aftermarket business experiences two seasonal peaks, which require substantially higher levels of production. The higher demand for aftermarket wheels from our customers occurs in March and September leading into the spring and winter peak consumer selling seasons. 
History 
 We were initially incorporated in Delaware in 1969. Our entry into the OEM aluminum wheel business in 1973 resulted from our successful development of manufacturing technology, quality control and quality assurance techniques that enabled us to satisfy the quality and volume requirements of the OEM market for aluminum wheels. The first aluminum wheel for a domestic OEM customer was a Mustang wheel for Ford Motor Company. We reincorporated in California in 1994, and in 2015, we moved our headquarters from Van Nuys, California to Southfield, Michigan and reincorporated in Delaware. On May 30, 2017, we acquired a majority interest in Uniwheels, which is a European supplier of OEM and aftermarket aluminum wheels. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “SUP.” 
Available Information 
 Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any amendments thereto are available, without charge, on or through our website, www.supind.com, under “Investors,” as soon as reasonably 
 
6 


  practicable after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains these reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding the company. Also included on our website, www.supind.com, under “Investor,” is our Code of Conduct, which, among others, applies to our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. Copies of all SEC filings and our Code of Conduct are also available, without charge, upon request from Superior Industries International, Inc., Shareholder Relations, 26600 Telegraph Road, Suite 400, Southfield, Michigan 48033. 
 The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
