Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


 | PART I | 
Item 1. | Business | 3 
 | General | 3 
 | Emerging Growth Company | 3 
 | Segment and Geographic Information | 4 
 | Our Strategy | 4 
 | Equipment and Services | 5 
 | Markets | 7 
 | Seasonality | 7 
 | Customers and Contractual Arrangements | 8 
 | Competitive Conditions | 8 
 | Risk of Foreign Operations | 8 
 | Government Regulation | 9 
 | Safety, Industry Hazards and Insurance | 10
 | Employees | 10
 | Where You Can Find More Information | 11
Item 1A. | Risk Factors | 11
Item 1B. | Unresolved Staff Comments | 32
Item 2. | Properties | 32
Item 3. | Legal Proceedings | 32
Item 4. | Mine Safety Disclosures | 32


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

General    
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we,” “our,” “ours,” “us” and the “Company” refer to Era Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. “Era Group” refers to Era Group Inc., incorporated in 1999 in Delaware. “Common Stock” refers to the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Era Group. The Company’s fiscal year ended on December 31, 2017.
We are one of the largest helicopter operators in the world and the longest serving helicopter transport operator in the U.S., which is our primary area of operations. Our helicopters are primarily used to transport personnel to, from and between offshore oil and gas production platforms, drilling rigs and other installations. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 62%, 62% and 66%, respectively, of our total operating revenues were earned in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In the same periods, approximately 34%, 31% and 21%, respectively, of total operating revenues were earned in international locations. We currently have customers in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, India and Suriname.
The primary users of our helicopter services are international, independent and major integrated oil and gas exploration, development and production companies. Our customers include Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (“Anadarko”), Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”) and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (“BSEE”), a U.S. government agency. In the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 91%, 88% and 78%, respectively, of our operating revenues were derived from helicopter services, including emergency response services, provided to customers primarily engaged in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities and U.S. government agencies that oversee these activities. Accordingly, our results of operations are, to a large extent, tied to the level of offshore exploration, development and production activity by oil and gas companies in the Americas, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. In addition to serving the oil and gas industry, we provide utility services to support firefighting, mining, power line and pipeline survey activities, among other activities. 
We also lease helicopters to third parties and foreign affiliates and, in some cases, provide services such as logistical and maintenance support, training and flight and maintenance crews in addition to the helicopters. These third parties and affiliates in turn provide helicopter services to customers in their local markets, many of which include oil and gas exploration, development and production companies. Under these leasing arrangements, operational responsibility is typically assumed by the lessee, eliminating, in large part, the need to incur the investment costs for direct support infrastructure in the location the helicopters are utilized.
In certain countries where we believe it is beneficial to access the local market for offshore helicopter support, we conduct our operations through subsidiaries, strategic alliances with foreign partners or through entities structured as joint ventures with local shareholders. In Brazil, we hold a 50% economic and 20% voting interest in Aeróleo Taxi Aéreo S/A (“Aeróleo”), a helicopter transport service provider to the offshore oil and gas industry based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Aeróleo is consolidated in our financial statements as it is a variable interest entity of which we are the primary beneficiary. In Colombia, we hold a 75% interest in Sicher Helicopters SAS (“Sicher”), a leading helicopter operator based in Bogota, Colombia with a strong presence in the existing onshore oil and gas market. Sicher is also consolidated in our financial statements.
We provide additional services through joint ventures that complement our core helicopter operating and leasing activities. We hold a 50% interest in our Dart Holding Company Ltd. (“Dart”) joint venture, which is a sales and manufacturing organization based in Canada that engineers and manufactures after-market helicopter parts and accessories for sale to helicopter manufacturers and operators and distributes parts and accessories on behalf of other manufacturers. We also hold a 50% interest in Era Training Center LLC (“Era Training”), a joint venture based in Lake Charles, Louisiana, which provides classroom instruction, flight simulator and other training to our employees.
Era Group’s principal executive office is located at 818 Town & Country Blvd., Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77024, and its telephone number is (713) 369-4700. Era Group’s website address is www.erahelicopters.com. The reference to Era Group’s website is not intended to incorporate the information on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Emerging Growth Company
On January 31, 2013, SEACOR Holdings Inc. (“SEACOR”) completed the spin-off of Era Group (the “Spin-off”), and we are now an independent company with our Common Stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “ERA.” We are an “Emerging Growth Company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”), and are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other 
3

public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These include, but are not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtaining stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments. Unless our public float exceeds $700 million or our annual revenues exceed $1 billion before then, we will cease to be an emerging growth company no later than December 31, 2018.
Segment and Geographic Information
We have determined that our operations comprise a single segment. Helicopters are mobile and versatile assets and, as a result, may be utilized in any of our service lines as business needs dictate. Financial data for geographic areas is reported in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our Strategy
Our goal is to be the most efficient helicopter operator in the industry and to pursue additional business opportunities that leverage our strengths. Our operational, commercial and capital allocation strategies to achieve this goal are as follows:
Be the preferred provider of helicopter services in the Americas. The primary focus of our business operations is the provision of safe, reliable and efficient helicopter services to our valued customers. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as the two primary attributes required of their helicopter service providers. We are a founding member of HeliOffshore Ltd. (“HeliOffshore”), a global offshore helicopter industry safety association, and we continue to maintain a leadership role in the organization, which uses cross-industry cooperation as a platform for enhancing the industry’s overall strong safety record by sharing best practices, developing and applying advanced technology and encouraging common global flight standards. Amongst the helicopter service operators who meet their safety and reliability requirements, we believe customers usually make their selection of a provider based on aircraft availability, quality and location of facilities, customer service and pricing. We maintain 19 bases of operations in the Americas to support our customer needs, including a 35-acre super base in Houma, Louisiana that is one of the premier heliports servicing the Gulf of Mexico offering state of the art technology, security screening and passenger processing and comfort to our passengers and employees. We maintain a close partnership with our customers to better enable us to anticipate their needs, enhance customer service, better manage our fleet utilization and inform our capital allocation decisions.
Continue to upgrade our versatile helicopter fleet to enhance fleet utilization and facilitate fleet management. We are one of the largest helicopter operators in the world, operating a diverse and technologically advanced fleet of helicopters. We seek to enhance our fleet through the acquisition of new helicopter models and the installation of newer and safer technologies. An integral part of our fleet strategy is premised upon maintaining well-qualified and well-trained maintenance, ground and flight crews to service our fleet. We regularly review our asset portfolio by assessing market conditions and our customers’ demand for different helicopter models. We buy, sell and lease our equipment in the ordinary course of our business. We believe our strong relationships with the helicopter original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) help us maintain an asset base suitable for use within our own operations and for a variety of leasing solutions to other operators. We have ordered and maintain options on a number of new helicopters from the OEMs. During 2017, we took delivery of one new S92 heavy helicopter. As of December 31, 2017, we have orders to take delivery of one S92 helicopter, five heavy AW189 helicopters and five AW169 light twin helicopters. These new helicopter models enhance our fleet diversity and better enable us to meet customers’ needs. In order to maintain the flexibility required to address changing industry and market conditions that impact the supply and demand for our services and our customer needs, we retain the ability to terminate a significant portion of our commitments to purchase new helicopters subject to specified minimal liquidated damages.
Pursue additional leasing opportunities. We believe the various leasing solutions that we offer to other helicopter operators permit us to monetize demand from end markets that we may not otherwise have access to without a further investment in infrastructure and/or operations. There is intense competition in the leasing market with the introduction and expansion of specialized helicopter leasing companies. We believe customers look to us for a variety of leasing solutions because of our fleet diversity, including selection of light, medium and heavy helicopters to meet customer needs, and our ability as an operator to provide related services such as training, maintenance support and temporary ground and flight crews, which differentiates us from the financial leasing companies. During 2017, we began leasing helicopters and providing related support services to a new customer that provides helicopter emergency medical services in the U.S.
Expand into new and growing geographic markets. We believe there are significant opportunities in markets outside of the U.S., and we selectively seek to access these growth markets. In addition to our 50% economic interest in Aeróleo in Brazil and 75% interest in Sicher in Colombia, we continue to develop relationships in targeted markets that we believe are underserved by larger multinational helicopter operators, may benefit from our unique offering of services and expertise and provide us with opportunities for growth. As we seek to grow our business, we regularly evaluate new opportunities and entry into new markets through operating contracts, leases, acquisitions, joint venture investments and alliances with other industry participants.
4

Maximize shareholder value. We proactively manage our fleet as a portfolio of assets, and we plan our capital allocation with a focus on achieving business growth and improving rates of return, taking into careful account our balance sheet, liquidity and risk management. We continuously evaluate and optimize our fleet utilization, and as helicopters come off of current contracts or are replaced by newer models, we assess our future opportunities for such helicopters against our ability to recover our remaining investments in the secondary helicopter market. When appropriate, we may divest helicopters when such actions provide the highest expected shareholder return and often upgrade our fleet by reinvesting the proceeds in newer helicopters, such as the S92 and AW189 helicopter models. In addition, we pursue opportunities that leverage our fleet’s versatility by shifting assets between markets when circumstances warrant.
We will continue to build upon the expertise, relationships and buying power in our operating businesses to develop other business opportunities and sources of revenue. 
Equipment and Services
We own and operate three classes of helicopters:

• | Heavy helicopters, which have twin engines and a typical passenger capacity of 16 to 19, are primarily used in support of the deepwater offshore oil and gas industry, frequently in harsh environments or in areas with long distances from shore, such as those in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Australia and the North Sea. Heavy helicopters are also used to support emergency response search and rescue (“SAR”) operations. 


• | Medium helicopters, which have twin engines and a typical passenger capacity of 11 to 12, are primarily used to support the offshore oil and gas industry, emergency response services, utility services and corporate uses.


• | Light helicopters, which may have single or twin engines and a typical passenger capacity of five to nine, are used to support a wide range of activities, including the shallow water oil and gas industry, utility services, tourism and corporate uses.

As of December 31, 2017, we owned or leased a total of 132 helicopters, consisting of 16 heavy helicopters, 47 medium helicopters, 29 light twin engine helicopters and 40 light single engine helicopters. We had commitments to purchase 11 new helicopters consisting of one S92 helicopter, five AW189 helicopters, and five AW169 helicopters. The S92 and AW189 helicopters are scheduled to be delivered in 2018 through 2019. Delivery dates for the AW169 helicopters have not been determined. In addition, we have outstanding options to purchase up to an additional ten AW189 helicopters. If these options were exercised, the helicopters would be delivered in 2019 and 2020. 
As of December 31, 2017, 105 of our helicopters were located in the U.S. and 27 were located in foreign jurisdictions.
The following table identifies the types of helicopters that comprise our fleet and the number of those helicopters in our fleet as of December 31, 2017. “Owned” are those helicopters owned by us. “Leased-in” are those helicopters leased-in under operating leases.
5


As of December 31, 2017 | Owned | Leased-in | | Total | Max.Pass.(1) | CruiseSpeed | | Approx.Range | AverageAge(2)
 | | | | | | (mph) | | (miles) | (years) 
Heavy: | | | | | | | | | 
S92 | 3 | | — | | 3 | | 19 | | 175 | 620 | 2 
H225 | 9 | | — | | 9 | | 19 | | 162 | 582 | 8 
AW189 | 4 | | — | | 4 | | 16 | | 173 | 490 | 1 
 | 16 | | — | | 16 | | | | | 
Medium: | | | | | | | | | 
AW139 | 36 | | — | | 36 | | 12 | | 173 | 426 | 8 
S76 C+/C++ | 5 | | — | | 5 | | 12 | | 161 | 348 | 11 
B212 | 6 | | — | | 6 | | 11 | | 115 | 299 | 39 
 | 47 | | — | | 47 | | | | | 
Light—twin engine: | | | | | | | | | 
A109 | 7 | | — | | 7 | | 7 | | 161 | 405 | 12 
EC135 | 13 | | 2 | | 15 | | 7 | | 138 | 288 | 9 
EC145 | 2 | | — | | 2 | | 9 | | 150 | 336 | 9 
BK117 | — | | 2 | | 2 | | 9 | | 150 | 336 | n/a
BO105 | 3 | | — | | 3 | | 4 | | 138 | 276 | 28 
 | 25 | | 4 | | 29 | | | | | 
Light—single engine: | | | | | | | | | 
A119 | 14 | | — | | 14 | | 7 | | 161 | 270 | 11 
AS350 | 26 | | — | | 26 | | 5 | | 138 | 361 | 21 
 | 40 | | — | | 40 | | | | | 
Total Fleet | 128 | | 4 | | 132 | | | | | 13 

_______________

(1) | In typical configuration for our operations.


(2) | Reflects the average age of helicopters that are owned by us.

The management of our fleet involves a careful evaluation of the expected demand for helicopter services across global markets and the types of helicopters needed to meet this demand. As offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production globally moves to deeper water, more heavy and medium helicopters and newer technology helicopters may be required. Our orders and options to purchase helicopters are primarily for heavy helicopters. These capital commitments reflect our effort to meet customer demand for helicopters suitable for the deepwater market. 
Heavy and medium helicopters fly longer distances at higher speeds and can carry heavier payloads than light helicopters and are usually equipped with sophisticated avionics permitting them to operate in more demanding weather conditions and difficult climates. Heavy and medium helicopters are most commonly used for crew changes on large offshore production facilities and drilling rigs servicing the oil and gas industry.
In the U.S., we provide and operate helicopters under contracts using a Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) issued Part 135 Air Operator’s Certificate (“AOC”) for a variety of activities, primarily offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production, emergency response services, utility services and until recently provided flightseeing tours. For operating contracts, we are required to provide a complete support package including flight crews, helicopter maintenance and management of flight operations. 
In international markets, local regulatory requirements may require us to conduct our operations using another operator’s AOC through strategic alliances with foreign partners or through non-wholly owned entities with local shareholders. When we lease helicopters to customers that operate them on their AOC, our customers generally handle all the operational support except where our contracts require us to provide limited operational support, which may consist of helicopter maintenance, logistical support, personnel and/or training. 
6

Markets
Our current principal markets for our transportation and emergency response services to the offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production industry are in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Suriname, Colombia and Alaska. In addition, we currently have customers in Argentina, the Dominican Republic and India. 
Demand for helicopters in support of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production, both in the U.S. and internationally, is affected by the level of offshore exploration and drilling activities. Activity levels in the offshore oil and gas industry, in turn, are affected by prevailing oil and gas prices, expectations about future prices, price volatility and long-term trends in oil and gas prices. Historically, the prices for oil and gas and, consequently, the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, have been volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:

• | customer assessments of offshore drilling prospects compared with land-based opportunities, including oil sands and shale formations;


• | customer assessments of cost, geological opportunity and political stability in host countries;


• | worldwide supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;


• | the price and availability of alternative fuels;


• | the ability of The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing;


• | the level of production of non-OPEC countries;


• | the relative exchange rates for the U.S. dollar; and


• | various U.S. and international government policies regarding exploration and development of oil and gas reserves.

U.S. Markets. We are one of the largest suppliers of helicopter services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which is a major offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production region and one of the largest oil and gas aviation markets in the world. We operate from 11 bases in this region. Our client base in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico consists primarily of international, independent and major integrated oil and gas companies and the U.S. government. In addition to the quality and location of our operating bases, our strengths in this region include our advanced proprietary flight-following systems, our maintenance operations and our emergency response services.
We have two operating bases in Alaska, where we provide support for independent and major integrated oil and gas companies along the North Slope, and support for inland utility operations. Despite the remote location of our Alaskan bases, they are strategically located to provide services to our customers. These bases frequently include crew accommodations, hangars and fuel systems, all of which can be otherwise difficult or expensive to secure and maintain in such remote locations. 
International Markets. We actively market our services globally and currently have customers in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Suriname and India.
Brazil. Brazil has one of the largest deepwater offshore exploration, development and production areas in the world. In 2011, we acquired a 50% economic interest and 20% voting interest in Aeróleo. Aeróleo currently operates from a network of four operating bases located strategically in Brazil. Aeróleo’s main customer is Petrobras.
Colombia. Sicher provides helicopter services to Colombia’s existing onshore and expanding offshore oil and gas market.
Suriname. We provide helicopter services to seismic and exploration and production companies in support of Suriname’s offshore oil and gas market.
India. In India, we lease helicopters and provide logistics and spare parts support to an operator serving the offshore oil and gas industry.
Latin America. In addition to our operations in Brazil, Colombia and Suriname, we lease helicopters and provide logistics and other support to operators in Argentina and the Dominican Republic.
Seasonality
A significant portion of our operating revenues and profits related to oil and gas exploration, development and production activity is dependent on actual flight hours. The fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, particularly in Alaska, and flight hours are generally lower at these times. Prolonged periods of adverse weather in the fall and winter months, coupled with the effect of fewer hours of daylight, can adversely impact operating results. In general, the months of December through February in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and October through April in Alaska have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, June through November is tropical storm season. During a tropical storm, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm. However, flight activity may increase immediately before and after a storm due to 
7

the evacuation and return of offshore workers. Our Alaska flightseeing operations were also seasonal with activity occuring only from late May until early September, and our firefighting support activities follow a similar seasonal pattern. There is less seasonality in our dry-leasing and emergency response services. 
Customers and Contractual Arrangements
Our principal customers in the markets in which we operate are international, independent and major integrated oil and gas exploration, development and production companies. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we also provide helicopter transportation services to BSEE and, in Alaska, until recently we provided flightseeing services to cruise line passengers. Our leasing customers are typically other helicopter operators that operate our leased helicopters under their AOCs and retain the operating risk. These companies in turn provide helicopter transportation services primarily to oil and gas companies. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 4% of our helicopters were utilized in support of these leasing activities. 
During the year ended December 31, 2017, our top ten customers accounted for 84% of total revenues. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, each of Anadarko, Petrobras and BSEE accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2015, each of Anadarko and BSEE accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues.
We charter the majority of our helicopters primarily through master service agreements, subscription agreements, day-to-day charter arrangements, fixed-term noncancelable contracts and dry-leases. Master service agreements and subscription agreements typically require a fixed monthly fee plus incremental payments based on flight hours flown. These agreements have fixed terms ranging from one month to five years and generally may be canceled without penalty upon 30-90 days’ notice. Generally, these contracts do not commit our customers to acquire specific amounts of services or minimum flight hours and permit our customers to decrease the number of helicopters under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. Day-to-day charter arrangements require either a rate for each hour flown with a minimum number of hours to be charged or a daily fixed fee plus an hourly rate based on hours flown. The rate structure, as it applies to our contracts with oil and gas customers, typically contains terms that limit our exposure to changes in fuel costs. Leases generally run from one to five years and may contain early cancellation provisions. Under these leases, we may provide only the equipment or provide additional services such as logistical and maintenance support, training services and flight and maintenance crews. With respect to flightseeing tours, block space on helicopters is allocated to cruise lines and seats are sold directly to customers. 
Competitive Conditions
The helicopter industry is highly competitive. There are, however, factors that provide advantages and in some instances barriers to entry, particularly customer certification and access to appropriate facilities in strategic locations. Customers tend to rely heavily on existing relationships and seek operators with established safety records and knowledge of the operating environment. 
We are one of the largest helicopter operators in the world with principal operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, Suriname, Colombia and Alaska. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we have many competitors, the three largest being Bristow Group Inc. (“Bristow”), PHI, Inc. (“PHI”) and Rotorcraft Leasing Company LLC. Some oil and gas customers in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico operate their own helicopter fleets in addition to smaller companies that offer services similar to ours. In Alaska, we compete against a large number of relatively small operators. In international markets, we have several major competitors depending on the region. Our primary competitors in Brazil consist of Lider Aviação Holding S.A., OMNI Táxi Aéreo Ltda., and Brazilian Helicopter Services Taxi Aéreo Ltda.
In most instances, an operator must have an acceptable safety record, demonstrated reliability and suitable equipment to bid for work. Among bidders meeting these criteria, customers typically make their final choice based on helicopter preference, aircraft availability, the quality and location of operating bases, customer service and price. 
Our leasing business competes against financial leasing companies such as Lease Corporation International (Aviation) Limited (“LCI”), Lobo Leasing Limited (“Lobo”), Macquarie Rotocraft Leasing Limited (“Macquarie”), Milestone Aviation Group Limited (“Milestone”) and Waypoint Leasing Limited (“Waypoint”).
Risks of Foreign Operations 
We have activities worldwide, and for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, 34%, 31%, and 21%, respectively, of our operating revenues were derived from foreign activities. 
Foreign operations are subject to inherent risks, which, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “We are subject to political, economic and regulatory risks associated with our international operations” for more information.
8

Government Regulation
Regulatory Matters. Our operations are subject to significant federal, state and local regulations in the U.S., as well as international treaties and conventions and the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we operate our equipment or where the equipment is registered or operated. Our results of operations are dependent upon our ability to maintain compliance with all applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In the U.S. we hold the status of an air carrier under the relevant provisions of Title 49 of the United States Transportation Code (“Transportation Code”) and engage in the operating and leasing of helicopters in the U.S. and, as such, we are subject to various statutes and regulations. We are governed principally by the regulations of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), including Part 298 registration as an On-Demand Air Taxi Operator, and the regulations of the FAA applicable to an FAA Part 135 Air Taxi certificate holder. Among other things, the DOT regulates our status as an air carrier, including our U.S. citizenship. The FAA regulates our flight operations and, in this respect, has jurisdiction over our personnel, helicopters, ground facilities and certain technical aspects of our operations. In addition to the FAA, the National Transportation Safety Board is authorized to investigate our helicopter accidents (if any) and to recommend improved safety standards. We are also subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, because of the use of radio facilities in our operations.
Helicopters operating in the U.S. are subject to registration, and their owners are subject to citizenship requirements under the Federal Aviation Act. This Act generally requires that before a helicopter may be legally operated in the U.S., it must be owned by citizens of the U.S., which, in the case of a corporation, means a corporation: (i) organized under the laws of the U.S. or of a state, territory or possession thereof, (ii) of which at least 75% of its voting interests are owned or controlled by persons who are “U.S. citizens” (as defined in the Federal Aviation Act and regulations promulgated thereunder), and (iii) of which the president and at least two-thirds of the board of directors and managing officers are U.S. citizens. We have adopted provisions in our amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation to ensure compliance with the regulations of the FAA.
In Brazil, an operator must be licensed by the National Agency for Civil Aviation. Under applicable Brazilian law, in order to maintain its license, an operator must have Brazilian officers and be controlled by nationals of Brazil, meaning at least 80% of the operator’s voting shares are held by Brazilian nationals. The majority holder of voting shares in Aeróleo is a Brazilian national and therefore this subsidiary is currently controlled within the meaning of Brazil licensing requirements. Our ability to conduct our helicopter operating business in Brazil is dependent on our ability to maintain Aeróleo’s AOC.
In Colombia, the Civil Aviation Authority, Aerocivil, is the governmental entity which regulates the Air transportation in the country. Operators must be approved by this entity and regulated under the RAC (Colombian Aviation Regulations). Operators must have an Operations Certificate issued by the Aerocivil complying with all the regulatory matters and subject to frequent revisions and monitoring. Sicher operates under its Operations Certificate, issued since August 2008, and additionally is the only helicopter company in the country certified and operating under FAA regulations which allows it to operate U.S. registered helicopters.
We are subject to state and local laws and regulations including, but not limited to, significant state regulations for our emergency response services. In addition, our international operations, primarily helicopter leasing and our joint ventures, are required to comply with the laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. 
Environmental Compliance. Our business is subject to international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and occupational safety and health, including laws and regulations that govern the discharge of oil and pollutants into navigable waters. If we fail to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, administrative, civil and criminal penalties may be imposed, and we may become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in the form of injunctions and cease and desist orders. We may also be subject to civil claims arising out of a pollution event. These laws and regulations may expose us to strict, joint and several liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for our own acts even though these actions were in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at the time they were performed. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
These laws include the federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, which imposes restrictions on the discharge of pollutants to the navigable waters of the U.S. In addition, because our operations generate and, in some cases, involve the transportation of hazardous wastes, we are subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which regulates the use, generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, referred to as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and certain comparable state laws, strict, joint and several liability can be imposed without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner and operator of a contaminated site where a hazardous substance release occurred and any company that transported, disposed of or arranged for the transport or disposal of hazardous substances, even from inactive operations or closed facilities that have been released into the environment. In addition, neighboring landowners or other third parties may file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response cost. We own, lease, or operate properties and facilities that, in some cases, have been used for industrial activities for many years. Hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have 
9

been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners whose treatment, storage and disposal or release of such substances was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination.
In addition, our customers in the oil and gas exploration, development and production industry are affected by environmental laws and regulations that restrict their activities and may result in reduced demand for our services.
We believe that our operations are currently in material compliance with all environmental laws and regulations. We do not expect that we will be required to make capital expenditures in the near future that are material to our financial position or operations to comply with environmental laws and regulations; however, because such laws and regulations are frequently changing and may impose stricter requirements, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these laws and regulations.
We manage exposure to losses from the above-described laws and regulations through our efforts to use only well-maintained, well-managed and well-equipped facilities and equipment and our development of safety and environmental programs, including our insurance program. We believe these efforts will be able to accommodate all reasonably foreseeable environmental regulatory changes. There can be no assurance, however, that any future laws, regulations or requirements or that any discharge or emission of pollutants by us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and our results of operations.
Safety, Industry Hazards and Insurance
The safety of our passengers and the maintenance of a safe working environment for our employees is our number one operational priority. We believe we have a strong safety culture throughout our organization that is sponsored by our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for setting the tone at the top. We strive to exceed the stringent safety and performance audit standards set by aviation regulatory bodies and our customers. 
Our safety department ensures that our operations comply with government regulations, customer safety requirements and safety standards within our organization, base operating procedures are standardized and our employees are properly trained. A key to maintaining our strong safety record is having highly qualified, experienced and well trained employees. We conduct training and develop, implement, monitor and continuously improve our safety programs to promote a safe working environment and minimize hazards.
We target zero accidents and injuries in the workplace. Helicopter operations are potentially hazardous and may result in incidents or accidents. Hazards such as adverse weather conditions, collisions, fire and mechanical failures may result in death or injury to personnel, damage to equipment and other environmental damage.
We have implemented a safety program that includes, among many other features, (i) transition and recurrent training using full-motion flight simulators and other flight training devices, (ii) an FAA approved flight operational quality assurance program and (iii) health and usage monitoring systems (“HUMS”), which automatically monitor and report on vibrations and other anomalies on key components of certain helicopters in our fleet.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we employed 747 individuals, including 213 pilots and 204 mechanics. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Certain of our employees in Brazil (approximately 28% of our total workforce) are covered by union or other collective bargaining agreements. If we are involved in any disputes over the terms of these collective bargaining agreements and are unable to negotiate acceptable contract terms with the unions that represent our employees, it could result in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, higher labor costs or other conditions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
10

Where You Can Find More Information
We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Unless otherwise stated herein, these filings are not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report. All of our filings with the SEC will be available once filed, free of charge, on our website, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and any amendments to those reports. These reports and amendments will be available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports or amendments with the SEC. The reference to our website is not intended to incorporate the information on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our filings will also be available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information as to the operation of the SEC’s Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. In addition, our Corporate Governance and other policies, and the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charters are available, free of charge, on our website or in print for stockholders. 
