Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business.
Overview
Drive Shack Inc. (and with its subsidiaries, “Drive Shack Inc.” or the “Company”) is a leading owner and operator of golf-related leisure and entertainment businesses. The Company conducts its business through three primary segments: (1) Traditional Golf properties, (2) Entertainment Golf venues and (3) Debt Investments. 
On December 28, 2016, the Company changed its name from Newcastle Investment Corp. to Drive Shack Inc. in connection with its transformation to a leisure and entertainment company. The Company was formed in 2002 and its common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “DS.”

• | Traditional Golf | American Golf

American Golf is one of the largest owners and operators of golf properties in the United States. As of December 31, 2017, we owned, leased or managed 75 properties across 13 states. American Golf and its dedicated employees are focused on delivering lasting experiences for our customers, including our more than 50,000 members, who played over 3.8 million rounds at our properties during 2017. 
American Golf was acquired by the Company in December 2013, when the Company restructured an existing mezzanine debt investment related to NGP Realty Sub, L.P. and American Golf Corporation (together, “American Golf”). As part of the restructuring, the Company acquired the equity of American Golf’s indirect parent, AGC Mezzanine Pledge LLC.
Our operations are organized into three principal categories: (1) Public Properties, (2) Private Properties and (3) Managed Properties.
Public Properties.   Our 48 public properties generate revenues principally through daily green fees, golf cart rentals and food, beverage and merchandise sales.  Amenities at these properties generally include practice facilities and pro shops with food and beverage facilities.  In some cases, our public properties have small clubhouses with banquet facilities. In addition, The Players Club is a monthly membership program offered at most of our public properties, with membership benefits ranging from daily range access to ability to participate in golf clinics, in return for a monthly membership fee.
Private Properties.   Our 18 private properties are open to members only and generate revenues principally through initiation fees, membership dues, guest fees, and food, beverage and merchandise sales. Amenities at these courses typically include practice facilities, full service clubhouses with a pro shop, locker room facilities and multiple food and beverage outlets, including grills, restaurants and banquet facilities. 
Managed Properties. Our 9 managed properties are properties that American Golf manages pursuant to a management agreement with the owner of each property.  American Golf utilizes its decades of experience to provide sophisticated, full-scale golf course operations expertise to municipal and private owners. We recognize revenue from these properties in an amount equal to the respective management fee.
1



• | Entertainment Golf | Drive Shack

Drive Shack is an entertainment company that combines golf, competition, dining and fun. Drive Shack plans to open a chain of next-generation entertainment golf venues across the United States and internationally, with each venue featuring multiple stories of hitting suites where friends, family, co-workers or complete strangers may compete in a technologically-enhanced golf games. Consumers who are seeking a good time, but not looking to participate in the game, would be able to spectate from one of Drive Shack’s restaurant or lounge areas. Drive Shack is developing its inaugural site in Orlando, Florida with a planned opening in the first quarter of 2018.

• | Debt Investments | Loans & Securities

The Company historically invested in loans and securities. During 2017, the Company has substantially monetized its remaining loans and securities as part of its transformation to a leisure and entertainment company. 
For a further discussion of our reportable segments in addition to financial results, see Note 4 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” See Note 13 in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information about transactions with affiliates and affiliated entities.
Developments in 2017
Traditional Golf - Property Updates
In May 2017, the management agreement on a golf property in California expired and the Company exited the property. In December 2017, the lease expired on a golf property in Oklahoma and the Company exited the property. In December 2017, the Company closed on the sale of a golf property in Oregon for $1.1 million. The golf properties that we exited during 2017 reported operating losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 
In September 2017, Hurricane Irma caused significant damage to a golf property in Florida, including damage to trees, bunkers and other landscaping. The three golf courses at this property were closed immediately and reopened prior to December 31, 2017. The property is insured for property damage and business interruption losses related to such events, subject to deductibles and policy limits. The Company has incurred $4.2 million in property damage costs through December 31, 2017, of which $2.0 million has been reimbursed from the insurer. The Company expects to incur an additional $1.3 to $1.8 million in property damage costs in 2018, all of which is expected to be reimbursed by the insurer. 
2

Entertainment Golf - Opening Inaugural Venue, Announced Additional Venues 
During 2017, the Company continued development of its first entertainment golf venue, a three-story, innovative driving range and restaurant venue in Orlando, Florida, with a planned opening in the first quarter of 2018.
During 2017, the Company announced plans to develop three additional venues in Richmond, Virginia; Raleigh, North Carolina and West Palm Beach, Florida.
Debt Investments - Continued Monetization
During 2017, we monetized the majority of our debt investment portfolio including all of the agency Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac (“FNMA/FHLMC”) securities and our investment in a corporate loan in the resorts industry (“the resorts-related loan”) as described in the “Debt Investments” section above. These proceeds will be used to reinvest in the development of Entertainment Golf. See Notes 8 and 9 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.
In April 2010, we made a cash investment of $75.0 million through two of our CDOs in a new loan to Intrawest Cayman L.P. and its subsidiaries (“Intrawest”), which was a portfolio company of private equity funds managed by an affiliate of our Manager through July 31, 2017. In addition, Mr. Wesley R. Edens is Chairman of our board of directors, was a director of Intrawest, and had an indirect ownership interest in Intrawest. In accordance with the loan agreement, as of April 24, 2015, the accrued and deferred interest rate stepped-up from 15.55% to 22.50%.  On September 23, 2016, we received a $109.9 million pay down on this loan. On August 1, 2017, we received a final pay down on this loan in the amount of $69.5 million. See Notes 9 and 13 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.
Corporate Shift - New Structure 
In connection with the transformation to a leisure and entertainment company, on February 23, 2017, the Company revoked its election to be treated as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) effective January 1, 2017. The Company operated in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes through December 31, 2016. See Note 15 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.
On December 21, 2017, the Company announced that it had entered into definitive agreements with the Manager to internalize the Company’s management (the “Internalization”) effective January 1, 2018. The Company and the Manager agreed to terminate the existing Management Agreement (as defined under “–The Management Agreement" below) and arrange for the Manager to continue to provide certain services for a transition period. In connection with the termination of the Management Agreement, the Company made a one-time cash payment of $10.7 million to the Manager.
Policies with Respect to Certain Other Activities 
Subject to the approval of our board of directors, we have the authority to offer our common stock or other equity or debt securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the future. We also may make loans to, or provide guarantees of certain obligations of, our subsidiaries. We may engage in the purchase and sale of investments. Our officers and directors may change any of these policies and any investment guidelines without a vote of our stockholders. In the event that we determine to raise additional equity capital, our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval (subject to certain NYSE requirements), to issue additional common stock or preferred stock in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration it deems appropriate, including in exchange for property. 
Competition
We operate in a highly competitive industry, and compete primarily on the basis of reputation, location and the perceived value of our properties and facilities. Our ability to compete with other golf and entertainment facilities directly affects our ability to succeed. 
In addition, we are subject to significant competition in seeking investments. We compete with other companies, including real estate, golf, leisure and/or entertainment companies and private equity firms. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we possess, or have greater access to capital or various types of financing than are available to us, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments or provide attractive investments returns relative to our competitors. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any targeted benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances.
3

We also compete for discretionary leisure and entertainment spending with other types of recreational and entertainment facilities, including entertainment retail and restaurants. Some of these establishments may exist in multiple locations, and we may also face competition in the future from other entertainment retail concepts that are similar to ours.
For more information about the competition we face generally and in our Traditional and Entertainment Golf businesses specifically, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Competition in the industry in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.”
Seasonality
Traditional Golf is subject to seasonal fluctuations caused by significant reductions in golf activities as well as revenue in the first and fourth quarters of each year, due to shorter days and colder temperatures.  Consequently, a significantly larger portion of our revenue from our Traditional Golf operations is earned in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, severe weather patterns can also negatively impact our results of operations.
Government Regulation of Our Business 
Our properties and operations are subject to a number of environmental laws. As a result, we may be required to incur costs to comply with the requirements of these laws, such as those relating to water resources, discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the cleanup of properties affected by regulated materials. Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases from currently owned, formerly owned or operated facilities.
Environmental laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the relevant entity knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. We may use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under such laws, and from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses of certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Our facilities are also subject to risks associated with mold, asbestos and other indoor building contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use, transfer or obtain financing for our property. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements.
In addition, in order to build, improve, upgrade or expand some of our facilities, we may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act and, for projects in California, the California Environmental Quality Act. Both acts require that a specified government agency study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include in its analysis various alternatives. Any improvement proposal may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project.
We are also subject to regulation by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and similar health and safety laws in other jurisdictions. These regulations impact a number of aspects of operations, including golf course maintenance and food handling and preparation.
The ownership and operation of our facilities subjects us to federal, state and local laws regulating zoning, land development, land use, building design and construction, and other real estate-related laws and regulations.
Our facilities and operations are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (the “ADA”). The rules implementing the ADA have been further revised by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008, which included additional compliance requirements for golf facilities and recreational areas. The ADA generally requires that we remove architectural barriers when readily achievable so that our facilities are made accessible to people with disabilities. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Federal legislation or regulations may further amend the ADA to impose more stringent requirements with which we would have to comply.
We are also subject to various local, state and federal laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business. For instance, we must comply with provisions regulating equal employment, minimum wages, land use including at the federal, state and local level and licensing requirements and regulations for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages.
4

Taxation 
On February 23, 2017, the Company revoked its election to be treated as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), effective January 1, 2017. The Company operated in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes through December 31, 2016. Since January 1, 2017, we are generally subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders declared on or after January 1, 2017 are not deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial, including due to certain deferred cancellation of indebtedness income. Although we have net operating losses that may be available to reduce our taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes and thereby reduce this tax liability, no assurances can be given that those losses will remain usable or will not become subject to limitations (including under Section 382 of the Code), and those losses may in any event not be usable in reducing our income for alternative minimum tax, state, local or other tax purposes. In particular, as discussed in more detail below, if the Company has undergone or were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, the Company could incur materially greater tax liability than if the Company had not undergone such an ownership change. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was signed into law. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and eliminating the alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) for corporate taxpayers. The Company has accounted for the effects of the Tax Act for the year ended December 31, 2017 which relates to the re-measure of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the reduction in the corporate income tax rate and has booked a non-recurring income tax receivable in the amount of $0.6 million due to refundable AMT credits. See Note 15 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.
The Management Agreement
Until January 1, 2018, we were party to an amended and restated management agreement with FIG LLC, the Manager and an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group LLC (the “Management Agreement”), pursuant to which the Manager provided for a management team and other professionals who were responsible for implementing our business strategy, subject to the supervision of our board of directors.  The Manager was responsible for, among other things, (i) setting investment criteria in accordance with broad investment guidelines adopted by our board of directors, (ii) sourcing, analyzing and executing acquisitions, (iii) providing financial and accounting management services and (iv) performing other duties as specified in the Management Agreement.
The Management Agreement provided for automatic one-year extensions. Our independent directors reviewed the Manager’s performance annually and the Management Agreement could have been terminated annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based upon unsatisfactory performance that was materially detrimental to us or a determination by our independent directors that the management fee earned by the Manager is not fair, subject to the Manager’s right to prevent such a management fee compensation termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of fees. The Manager must have been provided with 60 days’ prior notice of any such termination and would have been paid a termination fee equal to the amount of the management fee earned by the Manager during the twelve-month period preceding such termination, which could have made it difficult and costly for us to terminate the management agreement. Following any termination of the Management Agreement, we would have been entitled to purchase the Manager’s right to receive the Incentive Compensation at a price determined as if our assets were sold for cash at their then current fair market value (as determined by an appraisal, taking into account, among other things, the expected future value of the underlying investments) or otherwise we would have been able to continue to pay the Incentive Compensation to the Manager. In addition, if we did not purchase the Manager’s Incentive Compensation, the Manager could have required us to purchase the same at the price discussed above. In addition, the Management Agreement could have been terminated by us at any time for cause.
See Note 13 in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further information related to the terms of the management agreement.
Employees 
As described above under “–The Management Agreement,” we were managed by FIG LLC, an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group LLC through January 1, 2018. As a result, except in our golf operations which are discussed below, we have no employees through December 31, 2017. The employees of FIG LLC were not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. As part of the Internalization effective January 1, 2018, the Company directly hired 13 employees previously employed by the Manager or its affiliates, including the executive officers of the Company. 
5

Traditional Golf and Entertainment Golf
As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 4,400 employees at our golf facilities, consisting primarily of hourly employees. Other than a small group of golf course maintenance staff at one of our clubs, our employees are not unionized. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees, and our business has not experienced interruptions as a result of labor disputes.
Corporate Governance and Internet Address; Where Readers Can Find Additional Information 
We emphasize the importance of professional business conduct and ethics through our corporate governance initiatives. Our board of directors consists of a majority of independent directors; the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of our board of directors are composed exclusively of independent directors. We have adopted corporate governance guidelines, and a code of business conduct and ethics, which delineate our standards for our officers, directors, and employees.
The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘‘Exchange Act’’), with the SEC. Readers may read and copy any document that the Company files at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC’s internet site at http://www.sec.gov. 
Our internet site is http://ir.driveshack.com. We make available free of charge through our internet site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website in the ‘‘Investor Relations—Corporate Governance” section are charters for the Company’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Information on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report.
6

