Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

  Item 1. Business
 
 You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our financial statements as of December 31, 2017 and the notes to such financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 Overview
 
 We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on developing innovative drugs and drug combinations to improve clinical outcomes for cancer patients. We are building a drug development pipeline through the licensing or acquisition of oncology therapeutics at the late preclinical through advanced clinical development stage, leveraging already existing scientific and clinical data as much as possible to de-risk clinical development.
 
 Our lead drug product candidate is Validive® (clonidine mucobuccal tablet; clonidine MBT), a Phase 3-ready molecule for the prevention and treatment of severe oral mucositis (“SOM”) in patients undergoing radiotherapy for oropharyngeal cancer (“OPC”). In September 2017, we exercised our exclusive option with Onxeo S.A. to license worldwide rights to Validive.
  
 Increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines by macrophages is believed to be the mechanism of radiotherapy-induced severe oral mucositis. Oropharyngeal cancer arises in the immune tissue at the back of the throat, which is characterized by a high localization of macrophages. As a mucoadhesive tablet that works locally through agonizing a receptor on macrophages that suppresses cytokine expression at the sites of radiation, we believe Validive® has significant promise in addressing this large unmet medical need. Currently, there are no U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)-approved preventive or therapeutic options for patients that develop radiation-induced SOM.
  
 A Phase 1 and Phase 2 trial with Validive have been completed, with encouraging results. We anticipate a pre-Phase 3 meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of 2018, and are aiming to initiate our Phase 3 development program in the second half of 2018. Assuming the FDA concurs with our clinical plan, an interim analysis of the Phase 3 clinical data is currently planned for the fourth quarter of 2019, with final data anticipated to be released in the first half of 2021. In anticipation of initiating the international Phase 3 development program for Validive, we created a wholly-owned French subsidiary, Monopar Therapeutics, SARL in January 2018, and a wholly-owned Australian subsidiary, Monopar Therapeutics Australia Pty Ltd. in March 2018.
  
 In August 2017, we acquired the clinical stage drug product candidate MNPR-201 (GPX-150) from TacticGem, LLC. MNPR-201 is a novel doxorubicin analog engineered to eliminate the cardiotoxic side effects typically generated by anthracycline-based cancer drugs. MNPR-201 has completed a small Phase 2 clinical trial in soft tissue sarcoma patients. We are aiming to initiate one or more Phase 2 trials for MNPR-201 in the first half of 2019.
  
 As part of the transaction to acquire MNPR-201, TacticGem, LLC became our majority shareholder. Surrounding this transaction, we raised approximately $9.5 million (net of transaction costs) and filed a Form 10 with the SEC which became effective on January 8, 2018.
  
 We also own several discovery and preclinical stage drug product candidates, the furthest along being MNPR-101 (huATN-658). MNPR-101 is a novel first-in-class humanized monoclonal antibody to the urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (“uPAR”) for the treatment of advanced cancers. It has nearly completed IND-enabling work and we anticipate a pre-IND meeting with the FDA in the third quarter of 2018.
 
 In order to fund our planned operations, including executing our clinical development plans and advancing our drug product candidates, we will need to obtain additional significant capital through the sale of equity securities or other financial arrangements; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise needed capital under acceptable terms, if at all. The sale of additional equity will dilute our existing stockholders.
 
  Corporate Information
 
 We were formed as a Delaware limited liability company in December 2014, with the name Monopar Therapeutics, LLC. In December 2015, we converted into a Delaware C corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 1000 Skokie Blvd, Suite 350, Wilmette, IL 60091. Our telephone number is (847) 388-0349, and our email address is info@monopartx.com.
  
   
3


  
 
  Our corporate website is located at www.monopartx.com. Any information contained in, or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
  Our Strategy
 
 Our goal is to leverage the experience and competencies of our management team to acquire, in-license and develop promising drug product candidates and to commercialize cancer therapeutics that address unmet medical needs in the oncology market. The key elements of our strategy include:
  
   ●
 Initiate our Phase 3 development program for Validive;

 
   ●
 Obtain FDA approval of Validive for reducing the risk of onset of SOM in patients undergoing radiotherapy for oropharyngeal cancer;


   ●
 Commercialize Validive in the U.S. and EU;


   ●
 Maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio around Validive;

 
   ●
 Initiate clinical trial(s) for MNPR-201 in indications where we can leverage existing data of doxorubicin’s efficacy (breast cancer, sarcoma, rare pediatric cancers);


   ●
 Request pre-IND meeting for MNPR-101; and


   ●
 Expand our product portfolio through acquiring or in-licensing additional product candidates, especially ones where we can leverage already existing scientific and clinical data to help de-risk further clinical development.


  The Oncology Therapeutics Market
 
 Cancer is a collection of diseases characterized by uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. In January 2018, the American Cancer Society projected that there will be an estimated 1.7 million new cancer cases diagnosed and 609,640 cancer deaths in the U.S. in 2018. Current treatments for cancer include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy. The IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science reported in 2017 that total global spending on oncology medicines, including therapeutic treatments and supportive care, reached $113 billion in 2016.
 
 Many currently marketed cancer drugs do not distinguish between rapidly growing healthy cells and cancer cells. This leads to serious side effects and a very narrow therapeutic index. Often, treatment is discontinued because of adverse effects or cumulative toxicities, rendering chronic treatment impossible. Since tumors are generally not completely eradicated by chemotherapy, cessation of treatment often leads to a regrowth of the malignancy. Furthermore, many tumors mutate rapidly and develop resistance, thereby further rendering existing treatments ineffective. While newer immunotherapies have shown promising results, only a portion of patients will respond to such treatments. There is an urgent need for additional drugs to improve cancer treatment.
 
 Advances in the understanding of how tumor cells differ from normal tissue have made possible the development of a new class of targeted cancer therapies that interrupt processes important to tumor survival and progression. These include anti-angiogenic drugs, anti-metastatic drugs, and cell-signaling inhibitors.
 
 All of these approaches may be associated with various side effects experienced by cancer patients that result from the treatments having an adverse impact on normal functioning cells and organ systems. Supportive care products are frequently prescribed or administered to cancer patients to prevent or treat these side effects thereby allowing the patients to continue to receive potentially life prolonging cancer therapies and to minimize long term consequences from these treatments.
 
 Our pipeline and strategy are aligned with the trends in cancer care. Validive is intended to reduce the incidence of SOM and keep OPC patients on treatment longer. MNPR-201 is a novel analog of doxorubicin designed to eliminate formation of dose limiting cardiotoxic metabolites generated by doxorubicin while retaining the anti-cancer activity. MNPR-101 is designed to bind a specific cell surface receptor found cancer cells (uPAR), to thereby interrupt several pathways required for tumor growth and progression.
  
   
4


  
 
  Our Drug Product Candidates
 
 MONOPAR PRODUCT PIPELINE
 
 

  Validive® (clonidine mucobuccal tablet; clonidine MBT)
 
 Validive (clonidine MBT) is a mucobuccal tablet (“MBT”) of clonidine based on the Lauriad® mucoadhesive technology. The Lauriad technology was developed for oral transmucosal drug delivery and significantly increases the mucous and salivary concentrations of the active ingredient it contains, with decreased systemic absorption. The tablet is placed under the patient’s upper lip and remains there for several hours a day, releasing the active ingredient into the saliva.
 Mechanism of Action
 
 Validive is designed to deliver high local concentrations of the active pharmaceutical ingredient clonidine, an agonist of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors (“alpha-2AR”), to the oropharynx, the site of irradiation in the treatment of OPC. In the oropharynx, alpha-2AR are expressed on macrophages, immune cells that produce cytokines, the molecules that are responsible for the development of SOM (Maria et al., 2017). A recent clinical study demonstrated that radiation treatment substantially increased salivary cytokine levels and that these were positively associated with the formation of SOM in patients with head and neck cancer (Bossi et al., 2016). OPC patients with human papilloma virus positive (“HPV+”) OPC demonstrate an increased accumulation of macrophages in the tumor microenvironment compared to patients with OPC without human papilloma virus (“HPV–”), thus further priming HPV+ OPC patients for the development of SOM (Oguejiofor et al., 2017). The alpha-2AR regulates the expression of cytokines by macrophages, and clonidine reduces this cytokine production (Romero-Sandoval et al., 2005; Spengler et al., 1990). Macrophages are the primary immune cells that express alpha-2AR, making clonidine’s mechanism of cytokine suppression macrophage selective and distinct from the mechanism of other anti-inflammatory drugs (Handy et al., 1998; Perälä et al., 1992; Laukova et al., 2010). Further, Validive delivers clonidine transmucosally, to the sites of radiation treatment in OPC. This results in high salivary concentrations of clonidine and minimizes systemic absorption, allowing for maximal dosing of drug to the at-risk oral mucosa and the OPC microenvironment (Vasseur et al., 2017). Onxeo’s preclinical studies and Phase 2 clinical trial have provided data that support Validive’s mechanism of action and therapeutic potential for reducing the development of SOM in patients with OPC, improving oral mucositis-related symptoms, and decreasing radiotherapy-related adverse events, while exhibiting a favorable safety profile and high compliance rate with patients.
  
   
5


  
 
  Severe Oral Mucositis (“SOM”)
 
 SOM is induced by radiation treatment and is the most frequent major radiation-induced side effect observed in patients with head and neck cancer (“HNC”). SOM induces intense oral pain and dysphagia and limits a patient’s ability to eat and drink, which can lead to severe weight loss and a requirement for enteral or parenteral nutritional support. Patients that develop SOM are often hospitalized, and symptoms can force patients to stop cancer treatment for an undefined period of time or terminate early, thus reducing cancer treatment efficacy (Elting et al., 2008; Vera-Llonch et al., 2006). Thus, SOM impacts both quality of life and clinical outcomes in HNC patients. Currently, there are no FDA-approved preventive or therapeutic options for patients that develop radiation-induced SOM. Only symptomatic treatments such as opioids and mouthwashes are currently considered as part of the standard of care for this indication.
 
 The global incidence of HNC was approximately 690,000 cases in 2012 (Globocan 2012; Gupta, 2016). The incidence of HNC in the U.S. was approximately 63,000 cases in 2017 (cancer.net) and is projected to increase to more than 93,000 new cases by 2030 (Gupta et al., 2016). A similar increase is also predicted in the European Union (“EU”) Five (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom).
 
 These projections include all HNC patients, regardless of the anatomic location of their disease. However, the most rapidly growing sub-population of HNC are patients with OPC (Chaturvedi et al., 2011; Ramqvist et al., 2010). The oropharynx is comprised largely of immune tissue and includes the soft palate, the base (rear one third) of the tongue, and the tonsils. In the U.S., the incidence of OPC is approaching 70% of all HNC, the majority of which (approximately 70%) is HPV+ (Chaturvedi et al., 2011; Jordan et al., 2012; Gooi et al., 2016). The incidence of OPC is also increasing in the rest of the world (>30% of HNC) (Taberna et al., 2017), with >50% of all OPC being HPV+ (Gupta et al., 2016; Fakhry et al., 2015).
 
 Recent data (Vatca et al., 2014) have demonstrated that HPV+ OPC patients have a 6.9-fold increased risk of developing SOM during radiation treatment, and that onset of SOM occurs sooner than in HPV– OPC patients. These observations suggest that HPV+ OPC patients may be more likely to benefit from Validive (clonidine MBT) treatment than other HNC patients. The incidence of HPV+ OPC has outpaced the incidence of HPV– HNC by 4-5-fold over the past decade (Chaturvedi et al., 2011; Castellsagué et al., 2017). We project that this trend will continue for at least the next 20-25 years (another generation) in the U.S. based on the predicted increase in high-risk oral HPV infections due to the lack of adequate use of HPV vaccinations in children (Castellsagué et al., 2017). Thus, the HPV+ OPC population could be a driver of market growth for Validive (clonidine MBT), and also represents a potentially molecularly defined population for the clinical development of this drug (Taberna et al., 2017; Castellsagué et al., 2017).
 
  Clinical Data
 
 In November 2012, Onxeo submitted an Investigational New Drug application ("IND") for Validive with the FDA for the prevention and treatment of oral mucositis induced by radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy in cancer patients. On March 12, 2018, we received a notification from the FDA confirming the IND transfer from Onxeo to us. We believe that Onxeo’s Phase 2 data support the development of Validive for SOM in OPC patients, with an enhanced response anticipated in HPV+ patients. Patients with HPV+ OPC have a 6.9-fold higher risk of developing SOM (Vatca et al., 2014) possibly due to the increased accumulation of immune cells in the tumor due to the presence of the HPV infection (Lyford-Pike et al., 2013; Vatca et al., 2014; Oguejiofor et al., 2017). These immune cells may release oral mucosa damaging cytokines in response to radiation and may therefore be more responsive to Validive, which suppresses the production of these cytokines.
 
 In October 2015, the results from an international Phase 2 clinical trial of Validive were announced by Onxeo, demonstrating encouraging signs of clinical activity and safety compared to placebo. The trial enrolled 183 patients and was conducted in more than thirty centers in Europe and the U.S. This global, multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, three-arm study (NCT01385748) compared the efficacy and safety of Validive (50 microgram (µg) and 100 µg) to placebo in patients with HNC receiving chemoradiation therapy. Validive and placebo were applied to the gum of the mouth once daily beginning 1 to 3 days prior to chemoradiotherapy and continuing until the end of chemoradiation treatment.
  
   
6


  
 
 The safety profile of Validive was similar to placebo. Patients treated with Validive experienced less nausea and dysphagia compared to placebo.
 
 The mean overall patient compliance was approximately 90% across all treatment groups. Overall compliance according to patient diaries was similar in all treatment groups and consistent with the compliance according to the investigator’s evaluation.
 
 The analysis of OPC patients in this study showed:
  
   ●
  The incidence of severe oral mucositis (primary endpoint) was reduced by 26.3% (40% relative to placebo) in OPC patients treated with Validive (100 µg) (p=0.09† which is a meaningful trend but not statistically significant). 65.2% of OPC patients on placebo experienced severe oral mucositis compared to only 38.9% of OPC patients on Validive 100 µg.

   ●
 Validive (100 µg) reduced the risk of onset of SOM by 52% compared to placebo

   ●
 Secondary endpoints of severe drinking, eating, and speaking limitations due to mouth and throat soreness (“MTS”) score were reduced in the Validive (100µg) treated cohort.

   ●
 Decreases in other indicators of clinical benefit, including decreased duration of severe oral mucositis (by 15 days versus placebo), weight loss, decreased opiate use and increased cumulative dose of radiation received, strongly favored the Validive (100 µg) treated cohort.

   ●
 A dose response was observed with the Validive (100 µg) dose, demonstrating a trend toward superiority over the Validive (50 µg) dose as well as placebo.


 †p-value or probability value, is a statistical measurement of the likelihood a drug does not actually work based on the clinical data compared to a control such as a placebo (with no active pharmaceutical ingredient). In general, the FDA requires a p-value of less than 5% or p < 0.05, which is considered statistically significant, for marketing approval. A p-value of p<0.05 for a clinical trial comparing a drug and placebo means that there is less than a 5% chance the drug is actually inactive.
 
 Our review of Onxeo’s Phase 2 data indicated that the effect of Validive was much greater in OPC compared to non-OPC patients. We believe the data along with the mechanism of action of Validive provide a rationale for developing Validive for the treatment of radiation induced SOM in OPC patients as a first indication. The most rapidly growing sub-population of HNC in the U.S. and Europe are patients with HPV+ disease, which are primarily HNC patients with OPC. The oropharynx is the part of the throat at the back of the mouth, which includes the soft palate, the base (rear one third) of the tongue, and the tonsils. HPV+ OPC is a molecularly defined population of HNC characterized by the expression of a protein biomarker, p16 INK4a, and the presence of HPV DNA in the tumor. Evaluation of HPV status is part of the routine clinical assessment of patients with OPC prior to initiating treatment. The incidence of HPV+ OPC has outpaced the incidence of HPV– HNC in the U.S. and Europe by 4 to 5-fold over the past decade (Chaturvedi et al., 2011; Castellsagué et al., 2017).
 
  Validive Development Strategy
 
 Based on the existing Phase 2 data in patients with OPC treated with Validive, we are planning an adaptive design Phase 3 development program that will evaluate Validive compared to placebo in OPC patients stratified for HPV status. This design will allow us to prospectively confirm the observation made from the Phase 2 trial, that Validive will be effective in preventing radiation-induced SOM in patients with OPC. The Phase 3 program will also evaluate if Validive performs better in the HPV+ OPC cohort. We are currently working with the U.S. and EU regulatory agencies to design a development plan to move Validive toward registration in both a time- and cost- efficient manner. An optimal timeline of development milestones related to Validive include: FDA meeting to discuss Phase 3 in the second quarter of 2018, with Phase 3 trial being initiated in the third quarter of 2018, first patient dosed in the fourth quarter of 2018, interim analysis of Phase 3 trial in the fourth quarter of 2019, initiate stage 2 of the Phase 3 trial in the first half of 2020, data readout for the Phase 3 trial in the first half of 2021, and NDA submission in the second half of 2021. However, there are many risk factors which could delay or otherwise affect Validive’s development. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors.”
  
   
7


  
 
  MNPR-201 (GPX-150; 5-imino-13-deoxydoxorubicin)
 
 MNPR-201 (GPX-150; 5-imino-13-deoxydoxorubicin) is a proprietary doxorubicin analog that is selective for topoisomerase-II-alpha. Doxorubicin is used to treat adult and pediatric solid and blood (hematologic) cancers including breast, gastric, ovarian and bladder cancer, soft tissue sarcomas, leukemias and lymphomas. A number of clinical studies have demonstrated the anti-cancer benefit of higher doses of doxorubicin administered for longer periods of time. The optimal clinical efficacy of doxorubicin, however, has been limited historically by the risk of patients developing irreversible, potentially life-threatening cardiotoxicity. MNPR-201 has been engineered specifically to retain the anticancer activity of doxorubicin while minimizing the toxic effects on the heart. We believe the results of these studies, along with the potential to combine a less or non-cardiotoxic analog of doxorubicin with other anticancer agents, emphasizes that there is a large market opportunity for MNPR-201 in a broad spectrum of cancer types.
 
 The antitumor effects of MNPR-201 are mediated through the stabilization of the topoisomerase II complex after a DNA strand break and DNA intercalation leading to apoptosis (cell death) through a mechanism similar to doxorubicin and other anthracycline drugs. Inhibiting the topoisomerase II-alpha isoform is desired for the anti-cancer effect, while inhibiting the topoisomerase II-beta isoform has been demonstrated to mediate, at least in part, the cardiotoxicity associated with all anthracycline drugs currently used in the clinic. MNPR-201 is substantially more selective than doxorubicin for inhibiting topoisomerase II-alpha versus topoisomerase II-beta. This selectivity may at least partly explain the minimal cardiotoxicity that MNPR-201 has demonstrated in clinical studies to date.
 
  Clinical Data
 
 In February 2007, Gem Pharmaceuticals, LLC (a partner of TacticGem LLC) submitted an IND for MNPR-201 (GPX-150) for the treatment of cancer. The IND remains open and was transferred to us in February 2018. Several clinical studies of MNPR-201 (GPX-150) have been completed. A Phase I dose escalation study conducted at the University of Iowa enrolled 24 patients at 5 different dose levels of MNPR-201 (GPX-150) ranging from 14-265 mg/m2. No evidence of irreversible cardiotoxicity was observed in any of these patients, including 4 patients that had received prior anthracycline (doxorubicin or related molecules) treatment. In the four highest dose levels (>84 mg/m2), 9/17 patients showed a stabilization of disease including 3 out of 4 patients with leiomyosarcoma, which is a type of cancer that originates in connective tissue and smooth muscle most commonly in the uterus, stomach and small intestine.
 
 Based on the demonstration of stable disease in patients with leiomyosarcoma in the Phase I trial, a multi-center open label single arm Phase 2 trial was run in doxorubicin-naïve patients with non-resectable or metastatic soft tissue sarcoma (“STS”). Doxorubicin has historically been the standard of care for the treatment of leiomyosarcoma and other STS. This Phase 2 clinical trial enrolled 22 patients and was completed in early 2017. MNPR-201 was administered intravenously at 265 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for up to 16 doses and there was clear indication of anticancer activity and no evidence of irreversible cardiotoxicity. One patient went on compassionate use and received 20 cycles of MNPR-201, many more than the 6 to 8 cycles patients on doxorubicin are typically limited to. The progression free survival at 6 months was 38%, versus doxorubicin’s 6-month progression free survival of 25%, 33%, and 23% in three separate studies in this patient population (Lorigan et al., 2007; Judson et al., 2014; Chawla et al., 2015).
  
  MNPR-201 Development Strategy
 
 We will need to raise additional funds to support the next stage of clinical development of MNPR-201, which is planned to include Phase 2 trials that will evaluate MNPR-201 in cancer indications where doxorubicin has shown efficacy but its use is restricted due to cardiotoxicity. The objective of these trials would be to demonstrate signals of efficacy where MNPR-201 dosing does not have to be restricted due to cardiotoxicity. For example, several clinical studies completed in the 1990s demonstrated that concurrent doxorubicin (60 mg/m2, 8 cycles) and paclitaxel gave a 94% overall response rate in patients with metastatic breast cancer but led to 18% of these patients developing congestive heart failure (Gianni et al., 1995). Reduction of doxorubicin to 4-6 cycles of treatment decreased occurrence of congestive heart failure, but also reduced response rate to 45-55% (Sparano et al., 1999; Valero et al., 2001). A potential Phase 2 screening trial in patients with metastatic breast cancer would evaluate concurrent MNPR-201 plus paclitaxel to see if a higher response rate than 45-55% could be observed in the absence of irreversible cardiotoxicity. Concomitant administration of paclitaxel and MNPR-201 in the absence of cardiotoxicity would also provide rationale for this same combination in other clinical settings. Similar studies are also under consideration for the combination of MNPR-201 + trastuzumab in metastatic HER2+ breast cancer patients. Additional studies will evaluate cross-over to MNPR-201 in patients benefiting from doxorubicin that have reached their lifetime limit of doxorubicin exposure in STS and other cancer indications including several pediatric cancer indications. The results of these Phase 2 studies would be used to inform an initial registration strategy for MNPR-201, as well as to support collaborative clinical development efforts with cooperative groups and cancer-focused foundations. Ideally, we would like to initiate the Phase 2 clinical trial(s) in the first half of 2019. However, there are many risk factors which could delay or otherwise affect MNPR-201’s development. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors.”
  
   
8


  
 
  MNPR-101 (formerly huATN-658)
 
 No IND is required for MNPR-101 at this time because it is not yet in human clinical trials.
 
  uPA/uPAR Antibodies
 
 A significant body of in vitro and in vivo data have established the urokinase plasminogen activator ("uPA") system as being central to the processes of angiogenesis and metastasis, and therefore as a potentially promising target for cancer drug development. The uPA system is involved in the tissue remodeling and tumor signaling that leads to the progression of cancer. Recent evidence suggests that, in addition to uPA, its cell surface receptor, uPAR, may also be a suitable target for cancer therapeutics and diagnostics because it:
  
   ●
 is selectively expressed on metastatic tumor, tumor-associated immune and angiogenic endothelial cells, but not on most normal cells (several Phase 1 imaging studies in human advanced cancer patients show that uPAR can only be detected in the tumor and not in normal tissues);

   ●
 is central to several extracellular and intracellular oncogenic pathways required for metastasis (inhibiting the uPA system in turn inhibits many other downstream targets that are currently being targeted by other companies);

   ●
 is expressed on immune cells that allow the tumor to evade recognition by the immune system; and

   ●
 has the potential to interfere at several different signaling pathways that converge at uPAR.


 Thus, uPAR-targeted therapies may have broad-spectrum activity against many different cancer types.
 
 We have developed a set of monoclonal antibodies that target uPA and uPAR. Our lead antibody, MNPR-101, demonstrated significant anti-tumor activity in numerous preclinical models of tumor growth and is being advanced for clinical evaluation. Based on the selective expression of uPAR in tumor, MNPR-101 is expected to be well-tolerated and amenable to a variety of combination treatment approaches.
 
  Efficacy and Safety
 
 MNPR-101 is designed to interrupt several pathways required for tumor growth and progression. The compound’s mechanism of action is designed to block several particular cellular activities that are only turned “on” in a tumor rather than to destroy the tumor cell directly. For this reason, we believe that MNPR-101 may have fewer side effects than current cytotoxic agents which kill cells indiscriminately. In addition, by inhibiting multiple pathways required for tumor growth and progression, we believe MNPR-101 may lead to more effective tumor control than therapies that target only a single such pathway. We believe that most tumors, regardless of the tissue from which they originate, rely on the pathways that we are targeting; therefore, therapies directed at such pathways have the potential to be used against many different types of cancers.
 Drug Resistance
 
 MNPR-101 may also avoid some of the drug resistance problems caused by genetic instability that plague many conventional chemotherapies. Cancerous cells mutate and reproduce rapidly, meaning that there is great genetic heterogeneity among cells in a tumor. A given chemotherapy may be effective against the vast majority of these cells, but if even a small number have mutations that confer resistance, these cells will likely survive the treatment. The tumor will grow back composed almost entirely of these mutated cells, making the cancer resistant to further treatments with that particular chemotherapy. By targeting multiple tumor progression pathways, using drugs in combination regimens, and targeting more genetically stable endothelial and immune cells in addition to tumor cells, we believe that MNPR-101 has the potential to avoid these drug resistance problems.
 Combination Use
 
 Published preclinical data have shown the ability of MNPR-101 to enhance the anti-tumor activity of chemotherapies such as paclitaxel and gemcitabine (Bauer et al., 2005; Kenny et al., 2011). The expression and targeting of uPAR in general also suggests that MNPR-101 may combine with other targeted agents that affect signaling leading to tumor growth including the ability of tumors to evade immune response. In particular, uPAR is selectively expressed on cells of the myeloid lineage such as myeloid derived suppressor cells, neutrophils and macrophages, all of which drive tumor progression and may mediate resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors.
  
   
9


  
 
 Reports of successful cancer therapy increasingly involve the use of drug combinations that target multiple metabolic pathways simultaneously. To that end, oncologists are increasingly exploring the combined use of approved drugs when treating their patients. MNPR-101 is not expected to replace existing therapies, but rather to complement them. MNPR-101 is intended to be combined with existing therapies used to reduce tumor mass in order to make the overall treatment more effective in the acute setting. MNPR-101 could make chemotherapy more effective by making tumors more susceptible to chemotherapy by interrupting the tumors’ protective mechanisms. MNPR-101 could also potentially be used as a standard follow-up therapy after chemotherapy to prevent tumor regrowth and metastasis or in combination with immunotherapy including immune checkpoint inhibitors. Many cancers are not fatal unless tumors metastasize beyond their primary site and interfere with normal function in critical organs of the body. Current thinking suggests that by containing or preventing tumor growth, it may be possible to transform cancer into a manageable, non-fatal condition treated with chronic drug therapy. Given these potential uses, new treatments that target multiple pathways and are designed to be used in drug combinations, like MNPR-101, have the potential to significantly improve treatment outcomes, rather than merely competing with each other in the market.
 
  MNPR-101 Development Strategy
 
 We currently plan to request a pre-IND meeting with the FDA to discuss MNPR-101 in the third quarter of 2018. However, there are many risk factors which could delay or otherwise affect MNPR-101’s development. See Item 1A – “Risk Factors.”
 Material Agreements
 
 Since our inception, we have entered into three material agreements, one with Onxeo S.A., one with Cancer Research UK, and one with XOMA Ltd. None of the agreements requires any issuance of equity or any annual maintenance fee. See the summary of each material agreement below.
 
 In June 2016, we executed an option agreement with Onxeo S.A., a French public company, which gave us the option to license Validive (clonidine mucobuccal tablet), a mucoadhesive tablet of clonidine based on the Lauriad mucoadhesive technology to potentially treat severe oral mucositis in patients undergoing treatment for head and neck cancers. The pre-negotiated license terms included as part of the option agreement included clinical, regulatory, developmental and sales milestones that could reach up to $108 million if we achieve all milestones, and escalating royalties on net sales from 5 - 10%. On September 8, 2017, pursuant to the Onxeo license option agreement, we exercised the option to license Validive for $1 million. The exercise of the option assigns all of Onxeo’s rights to the Validive intellectual property to us, which allows us to commence the planning of our Phase 3 clinical trial in severe oral mucositis. Under the agreement, we are required to pay royalties to Onxeo on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the later of (1) the date when a given product is no longer within the scope of a patent claim in the country of sale or manufacture, (2) the expiry of any extended exclusivity period in the relevant country (such as orphan drug exclusivity, pediatric exclusivity, new chemical entity exclusivity, or other exclusivity granted beyond the expiry of the relevant patent), or (3) a specific time period after the first commercial sale of the product in such country. In most countries, including the U.S., the patent term is generally 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date of a non-provisional patent application in the applicable country, not taking into consideration any potential patent term adjustment that may be filed in the future or any regulatory extensions that may be obtained. The royalty termination provision pursuant to (3) described above is shorter than 20 years and is the least likely cause of termination of royalty payments.
 
 The Onxeo license agreement does not have a pre-determined term, but expires on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis; that is, the agreement expires with respect to a given product in a given country whenever our royalty payment obligations with respect to such product have expired. The agreement may also be terminated early for cause if either we or Onxeo materially breach the agreement, or if either we or Onxeo become insolvent. We may also choose to terminate the agreement, either in its entirety or as to a certain product and a certain country, by providing Onxeo with advance notice.
  
 On May 15, 2015, we entered into a Clinical Trial and Option Agreement (“CTOA”) with Cancer Research UK. Being a new entity at the time of the agreement negotiations, one of the requirements under the CTOA, which has already been fulfilled, was for us to deposit $800,000 into an escrow to cover indemnities in the event of third party claims resulting from actions or inactions of ours, patent infringement claims, or potential costs on termination of the CTOA by Cancer Research UK for cause. Pursuant to this agreement Cancer Research UK conducted preclinical work, improved the manufacturing, and planned to conduct a Phase 1a/1b clinical trial in cancer patients. Under this agreement, Cancer Research UK was to cover all costs through Phase 1a/1b clinical studies, including manufacturing. As part of a portfolio reprioritization review, on March 21, 2018, Cancer Research UK notified us it was terminating the agreement and would work to transfer to us the data generated under the agreement. We are currently reviewing potential alternative collaboration opportunities for MNPR-101 and continue to maintain the program’s intellectual property portfolio.
 
   
10


  
 
 To humanize our MNPR-101 antibody, we have taken a non-exclusive license to XOMA Ltd.’s humanization technology and know-how. Under the terms of the license, we are to pay only upon developmental and sales milestone achievements which could reach up to $14.925 million if we achieve all milestones. The agreement does not require the payment of sales royalties. There can be no assurance that we will reach any milestones. The first milestone payment is payable upon first dosing of a human patient in a Phase 2 clinical trial.
  
  Oncology Market Competition
 
 The pharmaceutical industry in general, and the oncology therapeutics sector in particular, are characterized by intense competition. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of which are larger and better financed than us. We also face competition in our efforts to develop and commercialize new oncology therapeutics from academic and government laboratories. The therapeutics that we are developing, if successfully commercialized, will have to compete with existing therapeutics already on the market and novel therapeutics currently in development, as well as new therapeutics that may be discovered and developed in the future. Our product candidates will also have to compete with alternate treatment modalities, such as radiation, which is also subject to continual innovation and improvement. Additional information can be found in the section entitled “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry.”
 Intellectual Property Portfolio and Exclusivity
 
 An important part of our strategy is obtaining patent protection to help preserve the proprietary nature of our drug product candidates, and to prevent others from developing competitive agents that are similar. Our patent portfolio includes issued patents and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Our general practice is to seek patent protection in major markets worldwide.
 
 We license all intellectual property related to Validive from Onxeo S.A., a French public company. See “Material Agreements”. Validive is covered by 32 issued patents and allowed patent applications and corresponding patents and applications in 32 jurisdictions, including the U.S., EU, Japan, and other Asian countries, and has orphan drug designation in the EU as well as Fast Track designation from the FDA. These patents are methods of use patents that cover the use of Validive to prevent and/or treat inflammation and inflammatory pain of the mucosa including cancer therapy-induced mucositis, and have been assigned to us pursuant to our license agreement with Onxeo. These patents expire in 2029.
 
 MNPR-201 (GPX-150) is covered by both composition of matter as well as manufacturing process patents. We have a patent for chemical synthesis technology that efficiently converts cardiotoxic "13-keto" anthracyclines such as doxorubicin, daunorubicin, epirubicin, and idarubicin into novel, patentable, and most likely less-cardiotoxic "5-imino-13-deoxy" analogs. A novel chemical composition of an intermediate for this synthesis is also patented. In addition, we have a patent covering the combination of MNPR-201 with paclitaxel for the treatment of cancer, plus covering the method of use of these two drugs for this purpose. Our MNPR-201 patent portfolio, which is still in the process of completing transfer of ownership subsequent to the purchase from TacticGem LLC, contains seven issued and allowed U.S. patents and allowed patent applications and one U.S. pending patent application. We have certain corresponding patents and applications in twenty-nine foreign jurisdictions, including the U.S., EU, Japan, and other Asian countries. The composition of matter patents will expire in 2018, the process patents for the synthesis of MNPR-201 intermediates will expires in 2024 and the patents covering the combination use of MNPR-201 and its analogs with taxanes will expire in 2026. We may pursue patent term extensions where appropriate. We do not believe that expiration of the MNPR-201 composition of matter patents will significantly affect our ability to develop or maintain our proprietary position around MNPR-201, given that we have obtained patent protection around the intermediates and process used to manufacture MNPR-201, will have Hatch-Waxman exclusivity (applicable to new chemical entities) for 5 years that will prevent generic competition, and have obtained U.S. orphan drug status in soft tissue sarcoma with additional orphan cancer indications to follow. We also have a pending International Nonproprietary Name (“INN”) request with the World Health Organization for a non-proprietary (generic) name for MNPR-201.
 
 Our patent portfolio for our MNPR-101 antibody (huATN-658), as well as its epitope, consists of two issued U.S. composition of matter and their methods of use patents, and allowed patent applications and corresponding (granted and pending) patents and patent applications in twenty-two foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union, Japan, and other Asian countries. These patents are owned by us. The patents covering the composition of matter of MNPR-101 will expire in 2025 and the patents covering the MNPR-101 epitope will expire in 2027. Being a novel biologic, it is eligible for 12 years of exclusivity in the U.S. under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (“BPCI Act”), and in numerous other countries it will benefit from varying durations of similar exclusivity, as well.
  
   
11


  
 
 Patent life determination depends on the date of filing of the application and other factors as promulgated under the patent laws. In most countries, including the U.S., the patent term is generally 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date (the priority date) of a non-provisional patent application in the applicable country, not taking into consideration any potential patent term adjustment that may be filed in the future or any regulatory extensions that may be obtained. Some of our patents are currently near expiration and we may pursue patent term extensions for these where appropriate. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.”
 
  Manufacturing
 
 We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production or testing of Validive, MNPR-201, MNPR-101 or any other product candidates, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. We presently depend on third party contract manufacturers for all our required raw materials, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (“API”), and finished drug products for our preclinical and clinical studies. We have not yet executed manufacturing agreements for our API and supplies of Validive, MNPR-201, or MNPR-101. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties.”
 Research and Development Costs
 
 Research and development (“R&D”) costs including in-process R&D are expensed as incurred. Major components of R&D expenses include R&D salaries and benefits, materials and supplies and fees paid to consultants and to the entities that conduct certain development activities on our behalf. R&D expense, including upfront fees and milestones paid to collaborators, are expensed as goods are received or services rendered. Costs to acquire technologies, including license fees, to be used in R&D that have not reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future use are expensed as in-process R&D as incurred, except in the case of a business combination when such costs are capitalized as part of the purchase price allocation. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, in aggregate we spent approximately $15.7 million (which includes $14.5 million of in-process R&D) on research and development costs (not including approximately $1.5 million spent by Gem in development of MNPR-201). See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval.”
 Government Regulation and Product Approval
 
 Government authorities in the U.S., at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. The pharmaceutical drug product candidates that we develop must be approved by the FDA before they may be legally marketed in the U.S. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval.”
 U.S. Pharmaceutical Product Development Process
 
 In the U.S., the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and implementing regulations. Pharmaceutical products are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial enforcement. FDA enforcement could result in refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process required by the FDA before a non-biological pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following:
  
   ●
 Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices (“GLP”), or other applicable regulations;

   ●
 Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (“IND”), which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin;

   ●
 Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies according to the FDA’s current Good Clinical Practices (“GCP”), to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed pharmaceutical product for its intended use;

 
   
12


  
 
   ●
 Submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application (“NDA”), for a new pharmaceutical product;

   ●
 Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the pharmaceutical product is produced to assess compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice standards (“cGMP:”), to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the pharmaceutical product’s identity, strength, quality and purity;

   ●
 Potential FDA audit of the preclinical and clinical study sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and

   ●
 FDA review and approval of the NDA.


 The lengthy process of seeking required approvals and the continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources and approvals are inherently uncertain.
 
 Before testing any compounds with potential therapeutic value in humans, the pharmaceutical product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the pharmaceutical product candidate. These early proof-of-principle studies are done using sound scientific procedures and thorough documentation. The conduct of the single and repeat dose toxicology and toxicokinetic studies in animals must comply with federal regulations and requirements including GLP. The sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA has concerns and notifies the sponsor. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical study can begin. If resolution cannot be reached within the 30-day review period, either the FDA places the IND on clinical hold or the sponsor withdraws the application. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a pharmaceutical product candidate at any time before or during clinical studies due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Accordingly, it is not certain that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical studies to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that suspend or terminate such clinical studies.
 
 During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given opportunities to meet with the FDA at certain points. These points may be prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2, and before an NDA is submitted. Meetings at other times may be requested. These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the sponsor to ask specific questions to the FDA, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. Sponsors typically use the end of Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical (registration) trial(s) that they believe will support approval of the new drug. A sponsor may be able to request a Special Protocol Assessment (“SPA”), the purpose of which is to reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol design and analyses that will form the primary basis of an efficacy claim.
 
 According to FDA guidance for industry on the SPA process, a sponsor which meets the prerequisites may make a specific request for a SPA and provide information regarding the design and size of the proposed clinical trial. The FDA’s goal is to evaluate the protocol within 45 days of the request to assess whether the proposed trial is adequate, and that evaluation may result in discussions and a request for additional information. A SPA request must be made before the proposed trial begins, and all open issues must be resolved before the trial begins. If a written agreement is reached, it will be documented and made part of the IND record. The agreement will be binding on the FDA and may not be changed by the sponsor or the FDA after the trial begins except with the written agreement of the sponsor and the FDA or if the FDA determines that a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or efficacy of the drug was identified after the testing began.
 
 Clinical studies involve the administration of the pharmaceutical product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the clinical study sponsor’s control. Clinical studies are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical study, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, how the results will be analyzed and presented and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical studies must be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice (“GCP”) guidelines. Further, each clinical study must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board (“IRB”), at, or servicing, each institution at which the clinical study will be conducted. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of study participants and is tasked with considering such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical studies are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical study subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical study until completed.
 
  
13


 

 Human clinical studies are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined:
  
   ●
 Phase I. The pharmaceutical product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.

   ●
 Phase 2. The pharmaceutical product is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases, to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule and to identify patient populations with specific characteristics where the pharmaceutical product may be more effective.

   ●
 Phase 3. Clinical studies are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These clinical studies are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. The studies must be well-controlled and usually include a control arm for comparison. One or two Phase 3 studies are required by the FDA for an NDA approval, depending on the disease severity and other available treatment options.

   ●
 Post-approval studies, or phase IV clinical studies, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication.

   ●
 Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical studies must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events or any finding from tests in laboratory animals that suggests a significant risk for human subjects. Phase I, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board may suspend a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the pharmaceutical product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients.


 Concurrent with clinical studies, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the pharmaceutical product as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the pharmaceutical product candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final pharmaceutical product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the pharmaceutical product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life.
 
  U.S. Review and Approval Processes
 
 The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the pharmaceutical product, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of substantial user fees; a waiver of such fees may be obtained under certain limited circumstances.
 
 In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (“PREA”), an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the pharmaceutical product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any pharmaceutical product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted.
 
 The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”), the FDA has 10 months in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months for a priority NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or if the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the last three months before the PDUFA goal date.
  
   
14


  
 
 After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the NDA application to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel pharmaceutical products or pharmaceutical products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the pharmaceutical product approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (“REMS”), is necessary to assure the safe use of the pharmaceutical product. If the FDA concludes that a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the NDA without a REMS, if required.
 
 Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites as well as the site where the pharmaceutical product is manufactured to assure compliance with GCP and cGMP. If the FDA determines the application, manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. In addition, the FDA will require the review and approval of product labeling.
 
 The NDA review and approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical studies are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than the sponsor interprets the same data. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical studies. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application.
 
 If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase IV testing which involves clinical studies designed to further assess pharmaceutical product safety and effectiveness and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized.
 
  Expedited Development and Review Programs
 
 The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new pharmaceutical products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new pharmaceutical products are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. The Fast Track designation must be requested by the sponsor. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. With a Fast Track designated product, the FDA may consider for review sections of the NDA on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA, if the FDA agrees to accept sections of the NDA and determines that the schedule is acceptable and if the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA.
 
 Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing approval, including a Fast Track program, may also be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new pharmaceutical product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Pharmaceutical products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that the products may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a pharmaceutical product receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. Fast Track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process.
  
   
15


  
 
  Breakthrough Therapy Designation
 
 The FDA is also required to expedite the development and review of the application for approval of drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Under the breakthrough therapy program, the sponsor of a new drug candidate may request that the FDA designate the drug candidate for a specific indication as a breakthrough therapy concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the drug candidate. The FDA must determine if the drug candidate qualifies for breakthrough therapy designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor’s request. Validive and MNPR-101 may both be eligible for breakthrough therapy designation.
 European Union Drug Review and Approval
 
 In the European Economic Area (“EEA”) (which is comprised of the 28 Member States of the European Union plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein), medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization (“MA”). There are two types of MA:
 
 The Community MA, which is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the CHMP, or Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, of the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, and medicinal products containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes and auto-immune and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU.
 
 National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in other Member States through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the above described procedures, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.
  
  PRIME Designation
  
 The EMA launched its PRIME regulatory initiative to enhance support for the development of therapies that target an unmet medical need. The initiative focuses on drugs that may offer a major therapeutic advantage over existing treatments, or benefit patients with no treatment options. These therapies are considered priority medicines within the EU. Through PRIME, the EMA offers early, proactive and enhanced support to drug developers to optimize the generation of robust data on a therapy’s benefits and risks and enable accelerated assessment of drug applications. MNPR-101 may be eligible for PRIME designation.
 
  Post-Approval Requirements
 
 Any pharmaceutical products for which a sponsor receives FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA and FTC promotion and advertising requirements, which include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, prohibitions on promoting pharmaceutical products for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the pharmaceutical product’s approved labeling (known as “off-label use”), industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can have negative consequences, including adverse publicity, enforcement letters from the FDA, actions by the U.S. Department of Justice and/or U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, and civil or criminal penalties. Although physicians may prescribe legally available pharmaceutical products for off-label uses, manufacturers may not directly or indirectly market or promote such off-label uses.
  
   
16


  
 
 Manufacturers of FDA approved products are required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing requirements contained in the FDA’s cGMP regulations. cGMP regulations require, among other things, quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Pharmaceutical product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved pharmaceutical products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase IV testing, risk minimization action plans and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product.
 
  U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
 The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), prohibits certain individuals and entities from promising, paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, directly or indirectly, to obtain or retain business or an improper advantage. The U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have increased their enforcement efforts with respect to the FCPA. Violations of the FCPA may result in large civil and criminal penalties and could result in an adverse effect on a company’s reputation, operations, and financial condition. A company may also face collateral consequences such as debarment and the loss of export privileges.
 Federal and State Pharmaceutical Legislation
 
 In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry.
 
  Anti-Kickback Statute of 1972
 
 The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed healthcare programs. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payment, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and a company’s practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for statutory exemptions or safe harbor protection. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by the PPACA, which, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent.
 
  False Claims Act of 1986
 
 The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies’ marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Many states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act, which state laws apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer.
  
   
17


  
 
  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPPA”)
 
 The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute’s safe harbors, it is possible that some of a company’s business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on a company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates.”
 Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (“HITECH”)
 
 HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), and its implementing regulations, imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA’s privacy and security standards directly applicable to “business associates”—independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney’s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. See “Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates.”
 The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”)
 
 In the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system, in particular, there have been and continue to be a number of initiatives at the U.S. federal and state levels that seek to reduce healthcare costs. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”), imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both stand-alone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payers often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from Medicare Part D may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payers.
 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
 
 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes for Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payers, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of any product, if any such product or the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study.
 Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2010
  
 The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by the physicians and their immediate family members.
  
   
18


  
 
  Patent Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010
 
 In March 2010, the PPACA was enacted, which includes measures to significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of the PPACA of importance to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry are the following:
  
   ●
 an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, that began in 2011;

   ●
 an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively;

   ●
 a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;

   ●
 extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;

   ●
 expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;

   ●
 expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program

   ●
 new requirements under the federal Open Payments program, created under Section 6002 of the PPACA and its implementing regulations, that manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), information related to “payments or other transfers of value” made or distributed to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and that applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations report annually to HHS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members, with data collection required beginning August 1, 2013 and reporting to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), required by March 31, 2014 and by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year;

   ●
 a requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012;

   ●
 expansion of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;

   ●
 a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products;

   ●
 a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;

   ●
 creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if Congress does not act on the recommendations; and

   ●
 establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending that began on January 1, 2011.


  Budget Control Act of 2011
 
 In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, or joint committee, to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The joint committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion and for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013.
  
   
19


  
 
  American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012
 
 In January 2013, the President signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding.
 
  Proposals in Congress to repeal or replace parts of the PPACA
 
 There have been a number of proposals in the U.S. Congress to repeal or replace parts of the PPACA. Some of the proposals include the repeal of the tax on prescription medications, repeal of the medical device excise tax for sales, and repeal of the elimination of a deduction for expenses allocable to Medicare Part D subsidy. It is uncertain whether any repeal or replace legislation will be passed and signed into law or what effect any such legislation may have on our commercialization strategy. See “Risk Factors - Future Legislation, Executive or Private Sector Action May Increase the Difficulty and Cost for us to Commercialize our Products and Affect the Prices Obtained for Such Products.”
 
  Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity
 
 Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of the use of our pharmaceutical product candidates, some of our products to be licensed under U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved pharmaceutical product is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration.
 
 Market exclusivity provisions under the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act can also delay the submission or the approval of certain applications of other companies seeking to reference another company’s NDA.
 
  The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (“BPCI Act”)
 
 The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, (“BPCI Act”), authorizes the FDA to license a biological product that is biosimilar to an FDA-licensed biologic through an abbreviated pathway. The BPCI Act establishes criteria for determining that a product is biosimilar to an already-licensed biologic, or reference product, and establishes a process by which an abbreviated BLA for a biosimilar product is submitted, reviewed and approved. The BPCI Act provides periods of exclusivity that protect a reference product from biosimilars competition. Under the BPCI Act, the FDA may not accept a biosimilar application for review until four years after the date of first licensure of the reference product, and the biosimilar may not be licensed until at least 12 years after the reference product’s approval. Additionally, the BPCI Act establishes procedures by which the biosimilar applicant provides information about its application and product to the reference product sponsor, and by which information about potentially relevant patents may be shared and litigation over patents may proceed in advance of approval. The BPCI Act also provides a period of exclusivity for the first biosimilar determined by the FDA to be interchangeable with the reference product.
 
 We anticipate that the contours of the BPCI Act will continue to be defined as the statute is implemented over a period of years. This likely will be accomplished by a variety of means, including decisions related to the statute by the relevant federal courts, FDA issuance of guidance documents, and FDA decisions in the course of considering specific applications. The FDA has to date issued various guidance documents and other materials indicating the agency’s thinking regarding a number of issues implicated by the BPCI Act. Additionally, the FDA’s approval of several biosimilar applications in recent years has helped define the agency’s approach to certain issues.
  
   
20


  
 
  Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement
 
 Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any pharmaceutical product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the U.S. and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers. Third-party payers include government payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payer will provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payer will pay for the pharmaceutical product. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific pharmaceutical products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved pharmaceutical products for a particular indication. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of its products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. A payer’s decision to provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved.
 
 In 2003, the federal government enacted legislation providing a partial prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients, which became effective at the beginning of 2006. However, to obtain payments under this program, a company would be required to sell products to Medicare recipients through prescription drug plans operating pursuant to this legislation. As part of their participation in the Medicare prescription drug program, these plans negotiate discounted prices for prescription drugs. Federal, state and local governments in the U.S. continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of health care costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation and regulations could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the drug product candidates that we are developing.
 
 Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Community, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed upon. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular pharmaceutical product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country.
 
  International Regulation
 
 In addition to regulations in the U.S., there are a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our future product candidates. Whether or not FDA approval is obtained for a product, approval of a product must be obtained by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before clinical studies or marketing of the product can commence in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In addition, certain regulatory authorities in select countries may require us to repeat previously conducted preclinical and/or clinical studies under specific criteria for approval in their respective country which may delay and/or greatly increase the cost of approval in certain markets targeted for approval by us.
 
 Under E.U. regulatory systems, marketing applications for pharmaceutical products must be submitted under a centralized procedure to the EMA. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all E.U. member states. The EMA also has designations for Orphan Drugs, which, if applicable, can provide for faster review, lower fees and more access to advice during drug development. While the marketing authorization in the European Union is centralized, the system for clinical studies (application, review and requirements) is handled by each individual country. Approval to run a clinical study in one country does not guarantee approval in any other country. The pharmaceutical industry in Canada is regulated by Health Canada. A New Drug Submission (“NDS”) is the equivalent of a U.S. NDA and must be filed to obtain approval to market a pharmaceutical product in Canada. Marketing regulations and reimbursement are subject to national and provincial laws. In Japan, applications for approval to manufacture and market new drugs must be approved by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Nonclinical and clinical studies must meet the requirements of Japanese laws. Results from clinical studies conducted outside of Japan must be supplemented with at least a bridging clinical study conducted in Japanese patients.
  
   
21


  
 
 In addition to regulations in Europe, Canada, Japan and the U.S., there are a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies, commercial distribution and reimbursement of future product candidates which we may be subject to as we pursue regulatory approval and commercialization of Validive, MNPR-201, MNPR-101, or any future product candidates internationally.
 
  Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
 Since we do not have our own laboratory facilities, we do not estimate any annual costs of compliance with environmental laws.
 
  Employees
 
 Our operations are currently overseen by five individuals, of which three have a PhD, two have an MD, one has an MBA, one has an MSc in health economics and policy, and one has an inactive CPA. They have worked at industry leading companies such as BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc., Raptor Pharmaceuticals, Abbott Laboratories, and Onyx Pharmaceuticals. As of March 1, 2018, we have five employees; four of them are full-time employees. For information regarding our executive officers, see the section entitled “Executive Officers and Board Members.”
 Available Information
 
 Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act may be accessed through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.monopartx.com free of charge. Such filings are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Audit Committee Charter are also posted on the Investor Highlight page on our website.
