Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “P.A.M.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean P.A.M. Transportation Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 
We are a truckload dry van carrier transporting general commodities throughout the continental United States, as well as in certain Canadian provinces. We also provide transportation services in Mexico under agreements with Mexican carriers. Our freight consists primarily of automotive parts, expedited goods, consumer goods, such as general retail store merchandise, and manufactured goods, such as heating and air conditioning units.
 
P.A.M. Transportation Services, Inc. is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in June 1986. We conduct operations principally through the following wholly owned subsidiaries: P.A.M. Transport, Inc., T.T.X., LLC, P.A.M. Cartage Carriers, LLC, Overdrive Leasing, LLC, P.A.M. Logistics Services, Inc., Choctaw Express, LLC, Choctaw Brokerage, Inc., Transcend Logistics, Inc., Decker Transport Co., LLC, East Coast Transport and Logistics, LLC, S & L Logistics, Inc., and P.A.M. International, Inc. Our operating authorities are held by P.A.M. Transport, Inc., P.A.M. Cartage Carriers, LLC, Choctaw Express, LLC, Choctaw Brokerage, Inc., T.T.X., LLC, Decker Transport Co., LLC, and East Coast Transport and Logistics, LLC. Effective on January 1, 2010, the operations of most of the Company’s operating subsidiaries were consolidated under the P.A.M. Transport, Inc. name in an effort to more clearly reflect the Company’s scope and available service offerings.
 
We are headquartered and maintain our primary terminal, maintenance facilities, and our corporate and administrative offices in Tontitown, Arkansas, which is located in northwest Arkansas, a major center for the trucking industry and where the support services (including warranty repair services) for most major truck and trailer equipment manufacturers are readily available.
 
Segment Financial Information
 
The Company's operations are all in the motor carrier segment and are aggregated into a single reporting segment in accordance with the aggregation criteria under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).
Operations
 
Our operations can generally be classified into truckload services or brokerage and logistics services. Truckload services include those transportation services in which we utilize company owned trucks or independent contractor owned trucks for the pickup and delivery of freight. The brokerage and logistics services consists of services such as transportation scheduling, routing, mode selection, transloading and other value added services related to the transportation of freight which may or may not involve the use of company-owned or independent contractor-owned equipment. Both our truckload operations and our brokerage and logistics operations have similar economic characteristics and are impacted by virtually the same economic factors as discussed elsewhere in this Report. Truckload services operating revenues, before fuel surcharges, represented 86.3%, 88.4% and 87.6% of total operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The remaining operating revenues, before fuel surcharge for the same periods were generated by brokerage and logistics services, representing 13.7%, 11.6%, and 12.4%, respectively. 
Approximately 59% of the Company's revenues are derived from domestic shipments while approximately 41% of our revenues are derived from freight originating from or destined to locations in Mexico or Canada. 
 
 - 1 -


Business and Growth Strategy
 
Our strategy focuses on the following elements:
 
Providing a Full Suite of Complimentary Truckload Transportation Solutions. Our objective is to provide our customers with a comprehensive solution to their truckload transportation needs. Our asset-based service offerings consist of dedicated, expedited, regional, automotive, and long-haul truckload services with non-asset based supply chain management, logistics and brokerage solutions rounding out our service offerings. Our range of service offerings also include our complete range of asset-based and non-asset based services to Mexico and Canada.
 
Developing Customer Relationships within High Density Traffic Lanes. We strive to maximize utilization and increase revenue per truck while minimizing our time and empty miles between loads. In this regard, we seek to provide equipment to our customers in defined regions and disciplined traffic lanes. This strategy enables us to:
 

• | maintain more consistent equipment capacity;
--+---------------------------------------------


• | provide a high level of service to our customers, including time-sensitive delivery schedules;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | attract and retain drivers; and
--+--------------------------------


• | maintain a sound safety record as drivers travel familiar routes.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Providing Superior and Flexible Customer Service. Our wide range of services includes expedited services, dedicated fleet services, logistics services, time-definite delivery, two-person driving teams, cross-docking and consolidation programs, specialized trailers, international services to Mexico and Canada, and Internet-based customer access to delivery status. These services allow us to quickly and reliably respond to the diverse needs of our customers, and provide an advantage in securing new business.
 
Many of our customers depend on us to deliver shipments on a time-definite basis, meaning that parts or raw materials are scheduled for delivery as they are needed on a manufacturer’s production line. The need for this service is a product of modern manufacturing and assembly methods that are designed to decrease inventory levels and handling costs. Such requirements place a premium on our delivery performance and reliability.
 
Employing Stringent Cost Controls. Throughout our organization, emphasis is placed on gaining efficiency in our processes with the primary goals of decreasing costs and improving customer satisfaction. Maintaining a high level of efficiency and prioritizing our focus on improvements allows us to minimize the number of non-driving personnel we employ and positively influence other overhead costs. Expenses are intensely scrutinized for opportunities for elimination, reduction or to further leverage our purchasing power to achieve more favorable pricing.
 
 - 2 -


Industry
 
According to the American Trucking Association’s “American Trucking Trends 2017” report, the trucking industry transported approximately 70% of the total volume of freight transported in the United States during 2016, which equates to 10.4 billion tons and over $650 billion in revenue. The truckload industry is highly fragmented and is impacted by several economic and business factors, many of which are beyond the control of individual carriers. The state of the economy, coupled with equipment capacity levels, can impact freight rates. Volatility of various operating expenses, such as fuel and insurance, make the predictability of profit levels uncertain. Availability, attraction, retention and compensation of drivers also affect operating costs, as well as equipment utilization. In addition, the capital requirements for equipment, coupled with potential uncertainty of used equipment values, impact the ability of many carriers to expand their operations. The current operating environment is characterized by the following: 

• | Competition for freight;
--+-------------------------


• | Price increases by truck and trailer equipment manufacturers;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------


• | Volatile fuel costs; and
--+-------------------------


• | Pressure on less profitable or undercapitalized carriers to consolidate or exit the industry.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Competition 
 
The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of carriers, none of which dominates the market in which the Company operates. The Company's market share is less than 1%, and we compete primarily with other irregular route medium- to long-haul truckload carriers, with private carriage conducted by our existing and potential customers, and, to a lesser extent, with the railroads. We compete on the basis of quality of service and delivery performance, as well as price. Many of the other irregular route long-haul truckload carriers have substantially greater financial resources, own more equipment or carry a larger total volume of freight as compared to the Company.
Marketing and Significant Customers
 
Our marketing emphasis is directed to that portion of the truckload market which is generally service-sensitive, as opposed to being solely price driven. We seek to become a “core carrier” for our customers in order to maintain high utilization and capitalize on recurring revenue opportunities. Our marketing efforts are diversified and designed to gain access to dedicated, expedited, regional, automotive, and long-haul opportunities (including those in Mexico and Canada) and to expand supply chain solutions offerings.
Our sales efforts are conducted by a staff of nine employees who are located in our major markets and supervised from our headquarters. These individuals work to improve profitability by maintaining an even flow of freight traffic (taking into account the balance between originations and destinations in a given geographical area), high utilization, and minimizing movement of empty equipment.
 
Our five largest customers, for which we provide carrier services covering a number of geographic locations, accounted for approximately 41%, 43% and 44% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. General Motors Company accounted for approximately 18%, 18% and 15% of our revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles accounted for approximately 10%, 9% and 11% of our revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Ford Motor Company accounted for approximately 9%, 10% and 11% of our revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 
 
We also provide transportation services to other manufacturers who are suppliers for automobile manufacturers. Approximately 46%, 45% and 47% of our revenues were derived from transportation services provided to the automobile industry during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
 
 - 3 -


Revenue Equipment
 
At December 31, 2017, our truck fleet consisted of 1,721 trucks, which included 18 trucks leased under operating leases and 560 independent contractor trucks. At December 31, 2017, our trailer fleet consisted of 5,795 trailers. Our company-owned trucks and leased trucks are late model, well-maintained, premium trucks, which we believe help to attract and retain drivers, maximize fuel efficiency, promote safe operations, minimize maintenance and repair costs, and improve customer service by minimizing service interruptions caused by breakdowns. The average age of our trucks and trailers as of December 31, 2017 was 1.49 years and 3.38 years respectively. We evaluate our equipment purchasing decisions based on factors such as initial cost, useful life, warranty terms, expected maintenance costs, fuel economy, driver comfort, customer needs, manufacturer support, and resale value. 
 
We contract with independent contractors to provide greater flexibility in responding to fluctuations in consumer demand. Independent contractors provide their own trucks and are contractually responsible for all associated expenses, including financing costs, fuel, maintenance, insurance, and taxes, among other things. They are also responsible for maintaining compliance with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration regulations.
 
Technology
 
We have installed Qualcomm display units in all of our trucks. The Qualcomm system is a satellite-based global positioning and communications system that allows fleet managers to communicate directly with drivers. Drivers can provide location, status, and updates directly to our computer system which increases productivity and convenience. This system provides us with accurate estimated time of arrival information, which optimizes load selection and service levels to our customers. 
 
Our information systems manage the data provided by the Qualcomm devices to provide us with real-time information regarding the location, status, and load assignment of our trucks, which permits us to better meet delivery schedules, respond to customer inquiries, and match equipment with the next available load. Our system also provides real-time information electronically to our customers regarding the status of freight shipments and anticipated arrival times. This system provides our customers flexibility and convenience by extending supply chain visibility through electronic data interchange, the Internet and e-mail.
 
Maintenance
 
We have a strictly-enforced, comprehensive preventive maintenance program for our trucks and trailers. Inspections and various levels of preventive maintenance are performed at set intervals on both trucks and trailers. A maintenance and safety inspection is performed on all vehicles each time they return to a terminal.
 
Our trucks carry full warranty coverage for at least three years or 375,000 miles. Extended truck warranties can be negotiated with the truck manufacturer and manufacturers of major components, such as engine, transmission, and differential manufacturers, for up to five years or 575,000 miles. Our trailers carry full warranties by the manufacturer for up to five years with certain components covered for up to ten years.
 
Employees
 
At December 31, 2017, we employed 2,409 persons, of whom 1,770 were drivers, 172 were employed in maintenance, 249 were employed in operations, 40 were employed in marketing, 110 were employed in safety and personnel, and 68 were employed in general administration and accounting. A total of 2,391 of our employees were employed on a full-time basis as of December 31, 2017. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we believe that our employee relations are good.
 
 - 4 -


Drivers
 
At December 31, 2017, we utilized 1,770 company drivers in our operations. We also had 629 drivers for independent contractors under contract who were compensated on a per mile basis. Our drivers are compensated on the basis of miles driven, loading and unloading, extra stops, and layovers in transit. Drivers can earn bonuses by recruiting other qualified drivers who become employed by us, and both cash and non-cash prizes are awarded for achieving certain safety and miles-per-gallon goals. All of our drivers are recruited, screened, and drug tested and participate in our driver training program. Our driver training program stresses the importance of safety and reliable, on-time delivery. Drivers are required to report to their driver managers daily and at the earliest possible moment when any condition occurs en route that might delay their scheduled delivery time.
 
We contract with independent contractors to supply one or more trucks and drivers for our use. Independent contractors must pay their own truck expenses, fuel, maintenance, insurance, and driver costs. They must meet and operate within our guidelines with respect to safety. We have a lease-purchase program whereby we offer independent contractors the opportunity to lease a truck, with the option to purchase the truck at the end of the lease term. We believe our lease-purchase program has contributed to our ability to attract and retain independent contractors. At December 31, 2017, approximately 290 independent contractors were leasing 355 trucks in this program.
 
In addition to strict application screening and drug testing, before being permitted to operate a vehicle, our drivers must undergo classroom instruction on our policies and procedures, safety techniques as taught by the Smith System of Defensive Driving, and the proper operation of equipment, and must pass both written and road tests. Instruction in defensive driving and safety techniques continues after hiring, with seminars at several of our terminals. At December 31, 2017, we employed 93 persons on a full-time basis in our driver recruiting, training and safety instruction programs.
 
Intense competition in the trucking industry for qualified drivers has resulted in additional expense to recruit and retain an adequate supply of drivers, and has had a negative impact on the industry. Our operations have also been impacted and from time to time we have experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. We place a high priority on the recruitment and retention of an adequate supply of qualified drivers.
 
Available Information
 
The Company maintains a website where additional information concerning its business can be found. The address of that website is www.pamtransport.com. The Company makes available free of charge on its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or furnishes such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Seasonality
 
Generally, our revenues do not exhibit a significant seasonal pattern; however, revenue is affected by adverse weather conditions, holidays and the number of business days that occur during a given period because revenue is directly related to the available work days of shippers. Operating expenses are typically higher in the winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency and increased maintenance costs associated with inclement weather. In addition, automobile plants for which we transport a large amount of freight typically undergo scheduled shutdowns in July and December and the volume of automotive freight we ship is reduced during such scheduled plant shutdowns. 
 
 - 5 -


Regulation
 
We are a common and contract motor carrier regulated by various United States federal and state, Canadian provincial, and Mexican federal agencies. These regulatory agencies have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, motor carrier registration, driver hours-of-service (“HOS”), drug and alcohol testing of drivers, and safety, size, and weight of transportation equipment. The primary regulatory agencies affecting the Company’s operations include the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Agency, and the Surface Transportation Board, which are all agencies within the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”). We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements relating to our business and operate with a “satisfactory” rating (the highest of three rating categories) from the DOT. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration, a component department within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. To the extent that we conduct operations outside the United States, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from offering bribes to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining favorable treatment.
 
In December 2011, the FMCSA released new rules regulating HOS that became effective in July 2013. These rules reduced the maximum hours that could be worked in a consecutive seven day period from 82 to 70, required that a driver take a mandatory thirty minute break during each consecutive eight hour driving period, and required that a driver take a 34 hour rest period, or restart, that included two periods between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. that could only be used one time every seven calendar days. 
 
In December 2014, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 suspended enforcement of the requirements for use of the 34 hour restart that became effective in July 2013 and replaced them with the previous restart rules that were in effect on June 30, 2013 pending the completion of the Commercial Vehicle Driver Restart Study which is designed to measure and compare the fatigue and safety performance of truck drivers using the two different versions of the HOS restart provisions. As of December 31, 2017, the study has been completed, but the findings have not been publicly disclosed.
In July 2012, Congress passed legislation renewing the mandate for electronic logging devices and designated authority to the FMCSA to propose a new rule. In December 2015, the FMCSA amended the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations to establish minimum performance and design standards for HOS electronic logging devices (“ELDs”); requirements for the mandatory use of these devices by drivers currently required to prepare HOS records of duty status; requirements concerning HOS supporting documents; and measures to address concerns about harassment resulting from the mandatory use of ELDs. This ruling affects nearly all carriers, including us, and required ELDs to be installed prior to December 2017, with enforcement beginning in April 2018. Since our trucks are currently ELD equipped, we do not foresee a negative impact to our profitability as a result of this new rule; however, we believe that more effective enforcement of HOS rules on smaller carriers may present challenges for them and may improve our competitive position. 
 
The FMCSA administers carrier safety compliance and enforcement through its Compliance, Safety, Accountability (“CSA”) program that became effective in December 2010. CSA is designed to measure and evaluate the safety performance of carriers and drivers through categorization of inspection and crash results into Behavior Analysis and Safety Improvement Categories (“BASICs”) including unsafe/fatigued driving, driver fitness, controlled substances and alcohol, maintenance, cargo, and crashes. BASIC scores are evaluated relative to carrier peer groups to determine carriers that exceed certain thresholds, identifying them for intervention. Intervention status might include targeted roadside inspections, onsite investigations and the development of cooperative safety plans, among other things. Ongoing compliance with CSA may result in additional expenses to the Company or a reduction in the pool of drivers eligible for us to hire. In addition to FMCSA action, a BASIC score that exceeds an intervention threshold might have a negative impact on our ability to attract customers and drivers.
 
 - 6 -


The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) jointly developed new standards for various vehicles, including heavy duty trucks, that were adopted in August 2011 and cover model years 2014 through 2018. The standard adopted for heavy duty trucks is intended to achieve a reduction in CO2 and fuel consumption ranging from 7% to 20% by model year 2017. In August 2016, the EPA and NHTSA finalized the second phase of these standards which will further reduce GHG emissions and fuel consumption for heavy duty trucks through model year 2027. In addition, the state of California has adopted its own fuel efficiency regulations that include the use of special aerodynamic equipment for trucks and 53 foot trailers traveling through the state. Compliance with these federal and state requirements has increased the cost of our equipment and may further increase the cost of replacement equipment in the future.
 
Our motor carrier operations are also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations dealing with the transportation of hazardous materials and other environmental matters, and our operations involve certain inherent environmental risks. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and assure compliance with applicable environmental laws. As part of our safety and risk management program, we periodically perform internal environmental reviews so that we can achieve environmental compliance and avoid environmental risk. We transport a minimum amount of environmentally hazardous substances and, to date, have experienced no significant claims for hazardous materials shipments. If we should fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.
 
Company operations are often conducted in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are conducted, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred, which could potentially expose us to claims that we contributed to the environmental contamination.
 
We believe we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that the cost of compliance has not materially affected results of operations.
 
