Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

     Item 1. Business.
     Overview
     We are a leader in the field of gene therapy, seeking to develop single treatments with potentially curative results for patients suffering from genetic and other devastating diseases. We are advancing a focused pipeline of innovative gene therapies that have been developed both internally and through our collaboration, focused on cardiovascular diseases, with Bristol Myers-Squibb (“BMS”). We have established clinical proof-of-concept in our lead indication, hemophilia B, and achieved preclinical proof-of-concept in Huntington’s disease. We believe our validated adeno-associated virus (“AAV”) technology platform and proprietary insect cell-based manufacturing capabilities provide us distinct competitive advantages, including the potential to reduce development risk, cost and time to market. We produce our AAV-based gene therapies in our own facilities with a proprietary, commercial-scale, manufacturing process, which is compliant with established current Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”). We believe our Lexington, Massachusetts-based facility is one of the world's leading, most versatile, gene therapy manufacturing facilities.
     AMT-061 is our lead product candidate for the treatment of patients with severe and moderately-severe hemophilia B, a serious and rare inherited disease in males characterized by insufficient blood clotting.  In October 2017, we announced plans to advance AMT-061, which includes an AAV5 vector carrying the FIX-Padua transgene, into a pivotal study. AMT-061 and AMT-060, the latter of which we previously investigated in a Phase I/II study, are identical in structure apart from two nucleotide substitutions in the coding sequence for the Factor IX (“FIX”) protein. Nonclinical studies of non-human primates have demonstrated the FIX-Padua transgene incorporated in AMT-061 expresses protein with approximately six to eight-fold increase in activity compared to the wild-type FIX transgene used in AMT-060. We believe that recently completed manufacturing comparability studies, conducted in accordance with a protocol generally agreed to by the FDA and EMA, demonstrated material comparability between AMT-060 and AMT-061.
     We achieved general agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) on our proposed development plan for AMT-061. The pivotal study is expected to be an open-label, single-dose, multi-center, multi-national trial investigating the efficacy and safety of AMT-061. The FDA has agreed that AMT-061 will be included under the existing Breakthrough Therapy designation and Investigational New Drug (“IND”) for AMT-060. The EMA also has agreed that AMT-061 will be included under the current Priority Medicines (“PRIME”) designation. Based on our meetings with the FDA and EMA, we plan to expeditiously advance AMT-061 into a pivotal study in 2018 for patients with severe and moderately severe hemophilia B. 
     In 2017, we acquired a patent family that broadly covers the FIX-Padua variant and its use in gene therapy for the treatment of coagulopathies, including hemophilia B. This family includes a patent issued in the U.S., as well as pending patent applications in Europe and Canada. 
     In July 2017, we reacquired development and commercial rights in Europe and other select territories for our gene therapy in hemophilia B from Chiesi, our previous co-development partner. We currently own global commercialization rights to our hemophilia B gene therapy. 
     AMT-130 is our lead product candidate for the treatment of Huntington’s disease. Huntington’s disease is a severe genetic neurodegenerative disorder causing loss of muscle coordination, behavioral abnormalities and cognitive decline, resulting in complete physical and mental deterioration. AMT‑130 consists of an AAV5 vector carrying an engineered micro‑RNA which silences the Huntingtin gene. We received orphan drug designation for AMT-130 for the treatment of Huntington’s disease in the United States and the European Union and hold global commercialization rights to the program. 
     In multiple preclinical studies of AMT-130, we showed widespread AAV5 vector distribution and extensive silencing of the human mutant huntingtin gene (“HTT”). In April 2017, we announced positive data from a preclinical study in mini pigs, among the largest Huntington’s disease animal models available for testing, demonstrating that a single administration of AMT-130 resulted in significant and dose-dependent reductions in HTT in all regions of the brain, 

 
  4


 
including the cortex. We recently completed dosing of a Good Laboratory Practices (“GLP”) toxicology study in non-human primates with AMT-130. 
     In April 2015, we entered into an agreement with BMS that provides exclusive access to our gene therapy technology platform for multiple targets focused on cardiovascular diseases. The collaboration includes our proprietary gene therapy candidate, AMT-126, for congestive heart failure. Congestive heart failure, which affects 26 million people worldwide, is the inability of the heart to supply sufficient blood flow to meet bodily demand for oxygen and nutrition. AMT-126 aims to restore the heart’s ability to synthesize S100A1, a calcium sensor and master regulator of heart function, and thereby improve clinical outcomes for patients with congestive heart failure. In July 2015, three additional cardiovascular targets were designated for development by BMS. 
     On August 2017, we announced that preliminary data from a study of AMT-126 in large animals demonstrated both DNA delivery and human S100A1 expression in the myocardium after treatments with product produced from our proprietary insect cell, baculovirus manufacturing process. Based on this finding and others, a preclinical study of AMT-126 was initiated in January 2018 to assess heart function in a diseased pig model. Pending data from this study, which is expected later this year, we and BMS plan to initiate a safety and toxicology study to enable an Investigational New Drug submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
     Our Mission and Strategy
     Our mission is to build a leading, fully-integrated, global gene therapy company that leverages our validated technology and manufacturing platforms to accelerate the delivery of transformative therapies to patients in serious need. Our strategy to achieve this mission is to:
     Advance AMT-061, a potentially best-in-class treatment of hemophilia B, to patients. AMT-061 combines the advantages of AAV5 with an enhanced Padua-FIX transgene, and may provide optimized clinical and tolerability benefits to all, or nearly all patients with hemophilia B. We have achieved alignment with the FDA and EMA on what we believe is an expedited clinical development plan. We expect to initiate our pivotal study program in 2018.
     Maintain our leadership position in commercial-scale AAV manufacturing. We established current GMP, commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities for AAV-based gene therapies in our state-of-the-art Lexington, MA facility. We successfully produced batches of multiple gene therapy products using the same fundamental manufacturing process, methods and controls. We believe the modularity of our platform provides us with distinct advantages, including the potential for reduced development risk and faster times to market.
     Build a pipeline of gene therapy programs focused on rare and orphan diseases targeting liver-directed, central-nervous system (“CNS”) and cardiovascular diseases. Beyond our lead clinical program for hemophilia B, we have a pipeline of additional AAV-based gene therapy programs in various stages of preclinical development. We are leveraging our leading technology platform, which includes novel vectors, promoters and manufacturing capabilities, to develop gene therapies primarily focused on rare, monogenic liver-directed, and CNS diseases as well as cardiovascular diseases. 
     Leverage the favorable immunogenicity profile of AAV5-based gene therapies to develop multiple products. We have demonstrated AAV5-based gene therapies to be generally safe and well-tolerated in three clinical trials conducted in 22 patients. No patient treated with AAV5-based gene therapies experienced a confirmed immune response to the capsid or complications associated with T-cell activation, such as a material loss of efficacy. Clinical trials also demonstrated that AAV5 has the lowest prevalence of preexisting neutralizing antibodies (NAb) compared to other AAV vectors, which may enable all, or nearly all patients to be eligible for treatment with AAV5-based gene therapies.
     Invest in next-generation technologies to expand the applicability of gene therapy to patients. We are developing proprietary technologies that have the potential to enhance safety and efficacy of our product candidates, and may broaden the applicability of our gene therapies to a wider range of diseases and patients. These technologies include (i) tailored vectors and promoters; (ii) optimized delivery and administration techniques and (iii) novel transgenes. These 

 
  5


 
technologies are developed both in-house by our experienced research team in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, as well as via collaborations.
     Continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio. We have established what we believe is a leading intellectual property portfolio covering various aspects of our technology and programs, including (i) elements of our gene therapy constructs, such as AAV vectors, promoters and transgenes, including the novel Padua-FIX gene we utilize in AMT-061 for hemophilia B; (ii) innovative delivery technologies, such as re-administration of AAV gene therapy; and (iii) proprietary manufacturing processes covering key components of our upstream and downstream capabilities. We expect to continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio by aggressively seeking patent protection for promising aspects of our technology platform and product candidates.
     Our Product Candidates
     A summary of our key development programs as of December 31, 2017 is provided below:
    
 | | | | | Development Stage | 
Product/Product Candidate | Vector | Gene | Indication | Collaborator | Pre‑clinical | PhaseI/II | PhaseIII | Approved | Comments 
Core Programs | | | | | | | | | 
AMT‑061 | AAV5 | FIX-Padua | Hemophilia B | — |  |  | | | Currently preparing for a Phase III study 
AMT‑130 | AAV5 | HTT | Huntington’s disease | — |  | | | | Currently conducting IND-enabling toxicology study
AMT-126 | Undisclosed | S100A1 | Congestive Heart Failure | BMS |  | | | | Currently conducting preclinical studies 

  Hemophilia B
     Hemophilia B Disease and Market Background
     Hemophilia B is a serious and rare inherited disease in males characterized by insufficient blood clotting. The condition can lead to repeated and sometimes life‑threatening episodes of external and internal bleeding following accidental trauma or medical interventions. Severe hemophilia is characterized by recurrent episodes of spontaneous joint bleeds that cause long‑term damage to the joints resulting in disabling arthropathy. Bleeds may be fatal if they occur in the brain. The deficient blood clotting results from the lack of functional human Factor IX (“hFIX”). Treatment of hemophilia B today consists of prophylactic or on‑demand protein replacement therapy, in which one to three times weekly intravenous administrations of plasma‑derived or recombinant hFIX are required to prevent bleeding and once daily infusions in case bleeding occurs. Hemophilia B occurs in approximately 1 out of 30,000 live male births.     Our Development of AMT‑061 for Hemophilia B
     We are currently developing AMT-061, a gene therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B. AMT-061, which includes an AAV5 vector carrying the FIX-Padua transgene, is designed to restore Factor IX (“FIX”) activity, essential for blood clotting in patients with hemophilia B. AMT-061 is intended to be delivered by intravenous (“IV”) infusion, without immunosuppressant therapy, through the peripheral vein in a single treatment session for approximately 30 minutes.
     AMT-061 and AMT-060, the latter of which we previously tested in 10 patients in an ongoing Phase I/II clinical trial, are identical in structure apart from two nucleotide substitutions in the coding sequence for FIX. The gene variant, referred to as FIX-Padua, expresses a protein with a single amino acid substitution that has been reported in multiple preclinical and nonclinical studies to provide an approximate eight to nine-fold increase in FIX activity compared to the wild-type FIX protein. We expect all other critical quality attributes of AMT-061 to be comparable to those of AMT-060, as AMT-061 utilizes the same AAV5 capsid, promoter and proprietary insect cell-based manufacturing platform.
    
 
  6


 

 Our goal for AMT-061 is to develop a gene therapy with the following profile:
    
· | long-term safety, including a favorable immunogenicity profile;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------


· | predictable, sustained and potentially curative increases in FIX activity;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | significant reductions in both bleeding rates and the need for FIX replacement therapy; and
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | broad patient eligibility, including the potential to treat all or nearly all patients with hemophilia B
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      We believe a differentiating feature of AMT-061 is AAV5’s favorable tolerability and immunogenicity results. In contrast to data reported using other AAV capsids delivered systemically via IV infusion, no patient treated in clinical trials with our AAV5 gene therapies has experienced any confirmed, T-cell-mediated immune response to the capsid or material loss of FIX activity. Data from the Phase I/II study of AMT-060 also demonstrated clinical proof-of-concept in the presence of preexisting NAb to AAV5, suggesting that all, or nearly all hemophilia B patients may be eligible for treatment with AMT-061. There can be no assurance that future clinical studies will produce similar results.
     On January 30, 2017, we received a Breakthrough Therapy designation by the FDA and on April 25, 2017, we received PRIME designation from EMA, for our AMT‑060 program. The FDA and EMA have agreed that AMT-061 will be included under these current designations. The FDA has also agreed that AMT-061 will be included under our current IND for AMT-060. The EMA also has agreed that AMT-061 will be included under the current PRIME designation.
     Pivotal Trial Program for AMT-061
 We plan to expeditiously advance AMT-061 into a pivotal study in 2018 for patients with severe and moderately severe hemophilia B. Based on our multi-disciplinary meetings with the FDA and EMA, we achieved alignment on the clinical and regulatory pathway for AMT-061, including the proposed pivotal trial plan for AMT-061.
 The pivotal study is expected to be an open-label, single-dose, multi-center, multi-national trial investigating the efficacy and safety of AMT-061 administered to adult patients with severe or moderately severe hemophilia B. Patients will serve as their own control, with a baseline established during a six-month observational lead-in phase prior to treatment with AMT-061. A short dose-confirmation study is expected to be completed in parallel to the lead-in phase of the pivotal study. Three patients will receive a single IV- dose of AMT-061 at 2 x 1013 gc/kg and will be evaluated for a period of approximately six weeks to assess FIX activity levels and confirm the dose. Each patient will continue to be followed longer term, and no lead-in phase is required for the dose-confirmation study. 
 We have initiated production of multiple clinical-grade batches of AMT-061 in our state-of-the-art Lexington, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. The material, which will be used in our pivotal study program, is being produced under cGMP conditions at commercial scale. The manufacturing process, controls and methods utilized for AMT-061 are consistent with those previously used for AMT-060. Data reviewed to date support comparability between AMT-061 and AMT-060. 
     Preclinical and Nonclinical Data for AMT-061
 AMT-061 nonclinical data demonstrated tolerability and substantial increases in Factor IX (“FIX”) activity. A GLP, nonclinical study of AMT-061 has been performed in non-human primates at four different dose levels up to a dose of 9 x 1013 gc/kg. The purpose of this study was to compare AMT-061 to AMT-060 with respect to liver transduction, circulating FIX protein levels, circulating FIX activity levels and toxicity, after a single intravenous dose with 13- or 26-week observation periods. Data from the study demonstrated a strong correlation between dose and human FIX expression levels, as well as biological activity of the expressed hFIX protein. At equal doses, circulating vector DNA plasma levels, liver distribution, liver cell transduction and hFIX protein expression were comparable for both AMT-060 and AMT-061. Additionally, AMT-061 demonstrated substantial increases in hFIX clotting activity compared to AMT-060, consistent with those previously reported for FIX-Padua. Based on a statistical analysis of the AMT-061 and AMT-060 non-human primate data, as well as the clinical data from the Phase I/II trial of AMT-060, we believe that AMT-061 administered at a dose of 2 x 1013 gc/kg may lead to mean FIX activity of approximately 30 to 50 percent of normal. The study also examined toxicology of AMT-061, including liver enzyme activity, coagulation biomarkers and other safety parameters. Data from the study demonstrated that AMT-061 was well-tolerated with no evidence of any significant toxicological findings. There was no increased thrombin generation or increased fibrin formation or degradation detected during the six months of follow-up. No increase in immunogenicity is expected with AMT-061, as there are no changes in the AAV5 capsid.
    
 
  7


 

 Intellectual Property for AMT-061
 We acquired a patent family that broadly covers the FIX-Padua variant and its use in gene therapy for the treatment of coagulopathies, including hemophilia B. This family includes a patent issued in the U.S. in 2016, as well as pending patent applications in Europe and Canada. The patent family was acquired from the inventor, Professor Paolo Simioni, a renowned hemophilia expert at the University of Padua, Italy, who is widely recognized as the first to identify this mutant. We recently filed divisional patent applications that would further strengthen our intellectual property position related to the FIX-Padua variant.
     Phase I/II Clinical Trial of AMT-060
     In the third quarter of 2015, we initiated a Phase I/II clinical trial of AMT‑060 in patients with severe or moderately‑severe hemophilia B. AMT-060 consists of an AAV5 vector carrying a codon-optimized, wild-type, human Factor IX gene cassette licensed from St. Jude. The study is a 5‑year, open‑label, uncontrolled, single‑dose, dose‑ascending multi‑center trial that includes two cohorts, with the low‑dose cohort using a treatment of 5x1012 gc/kg and the second‑dose cohort using 2x1013 gc/kg. We enrolled five patients into the low dose cohort in the third quarter 2015. Another five patients were enrolled into the high dose cohort between March and May 2016. 
     We presented up to twenty-four-months of follow-up data from the study on December 11, 2017 at the 59th annual meeting of the American Society of Hematology (“ASH”). Clinical benefit was maintained in all ten patients in the study, as measured by reduced FIX replacement therapy and bleeding frequency. Across the clinical trials' two dose cohorts, cumulative annualized consumption of FIX replacement therapy decreased by 84% as of deadline for ASH abstract submission. In the higher-dose cohort of the study, no confirmed bleeds were reported in the last twelve months of follow-up, with a reduction in the annualized spontaneous bleed rate of 89% compared to the one-year period prior to gene transfer. 
     No patients developed inhibitors to FIX and there were no detectable signs of sustained AAV5 capsid-specific T-cell activation. Mild, temporary elevations in ALT were observed in three patients, none of which were associated with changes in in FIX activity or capsid-specific T-cell responses. We will continue to follow-up the patients enrolled into the Phase I/II clinical trial of AMT-060. We currently intend to enroll all future patients in studies related to Hemophilia in clinical studies of AMT-061.
     Huntington’s Disease
     Huntington’s Disease and Market Background
     Huntington’s disease is a severe genetic neurodegenerative disorder causing loss of muscle coordination, behavioral abnormalities and cognitive decline, resulting in complete physical and mental deterioration over a 12 to 15-year period. The median survival time after onset is 15 to 18 years (range: 5 to >25 years). Huntington’s disease is caused by an inherited defect in a single gene that codes for a protein called Huntingtin (“HTT”). The prevalence of Huntington’s disease is 2.71 per 100,000 in the general population, similar in men and women, and it is therefore considered a rare disease. Despite the ability to identify Huntington’s disease mutation carriers decades before onset, there is currently no available therapy that can delay onset or slow progression of the disease. Although some symptomatic treatments are available, they only are transiently effective despite significant side effects.     Our Development of AMT-130 for Huntington’s Disease
     We are developing AMT‑130, an AAV5-based gene therapy, for the treatment of Huntington’s disease. AMT-130 delivers a DNA cassette encoding a proprietary, engineered microRNA designed to silence the Huntingtin gene, with the goal of inhibiting the production of the mutant protein. AMT-130 is intended to be administered directly into the brain via a stereotactic, MRI-guided catheter. 
     Preclinical, proof-of-concept studies with a single dose of AMT-130 have been conducted in multiple small and large animal models. In April 2017, we presented preclinical data on AMT-130 in transgenic mini pigs, which are among the largest Huntington’s disease animal models available for testing. The data demonstrated widespread, dose-dependent distribution of the vector throughout the mini pig brain that corresponded strongly with the mutant HTT expression. Researchers also observed a dose-dependent reduction in mutant HTT protein levels of more than 50% in the brain, as 

 
  8


 
well as similar trends in cerebral spinal fluid. Both the surgical procedure and AMT-130 treatment were well tolerated with no adverse events. 
     In October 2017, we presented preclinical data on AMT-130 in a mouse model with a highly aggressive form of Huntington’s disease that demonstrated significant improvements in both motor-coordination and survival, as well as a dose-dependent, sustained reduction in huntingtin protein. 
     In November 2017, we completed dosing of our GLP safety and toxicology study of AMT-130 in non-human primates. We expect to complete this study in mid-2018, which we believe will support the filing of an IND with the FDA in the second half of 2018. AMT-130 has received orphan drug designation from the FDA in October 2017 and Orphan Medicinal Product Designation from EMA in January 2018.
     Congestive Heart Failure
     Collaboration with Bristol‑Myers Squibb
     In April 2015, we entered into an agreement with BMS that provides exclusive access to our gene therapy technology platform for multiple targets primarily focused on cardiovascular diseases (“Collaboration and License Agreement”). The collaboration included AMT-126, our proprietary gene therapy program for congestive heart failure, which aims to restore the heart’s ability to synthesize S100A1, a calcium sensor and master regulator of heart function, and thereby improve clinical outcomes for patients with reduced ejection fraction. Beyond cardiovascular diseases, the agreement also included the potential for a target exclusive collaboration in other disease areas. In total, the companies may collaborate on ten targets, including AMT-126.
     We are supporting BMS in the discovery, non‑clinical, analytical and process development efforts and are responsible for manufacturing of clinical and commercial supplies using our vector technologies and industrial, proprietary insect‑cell based manufacturing platform. BMS reimburses us for all our research and development costs in support of the collaboration, and will lead development, regulatory and commercial activities across all programs. 
     Congestive Heart Failure and Market Background
     Congestive heart failure (“CHF”) is the inability of the heart to supply sufficient blood flow to meet bodily demand for oxygen and nutrition. CHF is a rapidly progressing disease affecting 26 million people worldwide, with patients suffering from severe heart failure facing a 5‑year mortality rate of over 50%. According to the American Heart Association, the prevalence of CHF is expected to double or triple by 2030. Maladaptive changes in the molecular composition of the diseased heart muscle contribute to its loss of contractile function, lethal tachyarrhythmia, energetic deficit, and maladaptive growth. Currently, there is no effective long‑term or causative treatment for this disease.     Status of Programs
     We are developing AMT-126, an AAV-based gene therapy carrying the S100A1 transgene, for the treatment of congestive heart failure. In August 2017, we announced that preliminary data from a study of AMT-126 in large animals successfully demonstrated both DNA delivery and human S100A1 expression, with the potential to restore normal levels of S100A1 in the myocardium after a single administration of AMT-126. The product used in this study was produced from our proprietary insect cell, baculovirus manufacturing process. Based on these findings and others, we and BMS advanced AMT-126 into further preclinical studies, including a therapeutic heart failure study in a diseased mini pig model that was initiated in January 2018.
     In July 2015, three additional targets for development in cardiovascular indications were designated by BMS. The development process for two of these new targets commenced in 2016.
     Other Early‑Stage Research
     We are pursuing the research of several other product candidates targeting rare and orphan diseases that can be treated using AAV-based gene therapies through application of either a gene replacement or a gene silencing approach. Our focus is on genetic diseases affecting the liver, such as hemophilia A, as well as various CNS disorders. 
    
 
  9


 

 A key focus area in our early stage research is AAV5-based gene therapies. We believe AAV5 is emerging as a potential best-in-class vector for systemic administration to the liver because of its favorable immunogenicity profile. As opposed to other AAV vectors that have been systemically administered to humans, we have not observed any sustained immune responses to the AAV5 capsid. Moreover, we believe all, or nearly all patients may be eligible for treatment with AAV5-based gene therapies because of a low prevalence of preexisting antibodies to the AAV5 vector. 
     New Technology Development
     We are seeking to develop next‑generation technologies with the goal of broadening the applicability of AAV-based gene therapies to patients suffering from debilitating diseases. We are focused on innovative technologies across each of the key components of an AAV-based gene therapy, including: (i) the capsid, or the outer viral protein shell that encloses the target DNA; (ii) the promoter, or the DNA sequence that drives the expression of the transgene; and (iii) the therapeutic gene, or transgene. 
     We have a significant effort dedicated to designing and screening novel AAV vectors with the potential for (i) higher biological potency; (ii) increased specificity and penetration of specific tissue types; and (iii) enhanced safety. Members of our team have significant expertise in vector engineering and have created promising genetically engineered capsids using our a “rationale design” approach. 
     We are also utilizing a “directed evolution” approach to identifying next-generation AAV vectors, which involves a vector selection process in which libraries of mutant variants are screened for optimal properties. In January 2014, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with 4D Molecular Therapeutics (“4D”) for the discovery and optimization of next‑generation AAV vectors targeting the liver and the brain. We have identified several promising next-generation AAV vectors and are currently in the process of evaluating them for use in future gene therapy programs.
     We have also worked extensively on designing synthetic promoters with the potential of enabling higher levels of protein expression in specific tissue types. Promoters are sequences of DNA that sit beside each gene on and whose function is to activate transcription, the initial process whereby protein is synthesized. Synthetic promoters, which do not exist in nature, are optimally tailored to drive gene expression of a target protein at a desired level and specificity. In January 2015, we entered into an agreement with Synpromics, a United Kingdom‑based biotechnology company, to jointly fund research relating to the development of optimized promoters. We have identified several promising liver-directed promoters and are currently in the process of evaluating them for use in future gene therapy programs targeting liver-directed diseases. 
     Commercial-Scale Manufacturing Capabilities
     The ability to reliably produce at a high quality and at commercial-scale is a critical success factor in AAV gene therapy. We produce our gene therapies using our proprietary, insect cell-based, baculovirus AAV production system. 
     This system has a number of advantages that enable high quality commercial-scale manufacturing, including:
    
· | High Yield. A single manufacturing run at 500-liter scale can yield many thousands of doses of an AAV gene therapy.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | High Purity. The baculovirus system eliminates the risk of introducing mammalian cell derived impurities.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Scalability. This process is reproducible at volumes ranging from 0.02 liters to 500 liters. We believe achieving higher scale production with our insect-cell, baculovirus system is possible.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Collaborations
     Bristol‑Myers Squibb Collaboration
     In April 2015, we entered into a series of agreements with BMS, a publicly traded pharmaceutical company, regarding a collaboration that provides BMS with exclusive access to our gene therapy technology platform for multiple targets in cardiovascular and potentially other diseases.
    
 
  10


 

 Collaboration and License Agreement
     With respect to the Collaboration and License Agreement with BMS, we refer to the section above.
     We have received a total of $140.5 million to date from BMS, including an upfront payment of $50.0 million at the closing of the collaboration, which occurred in May 2015, a $15.0 million payment for the selection of three collaboration targets, in addition to AMT-126, and approximately $75.5 million in two equity investments. We will be eligible to receive additional payments for further designation of new collaboration targets and upon the achievement of research, development and regulatory milestones, including up to $254.0 million for the lead S100A1 therapeutic and up to $217.0 million for each other gene therapy product developed under the collaboration. We will also be eligible to receive net‑sales‑based milestone payments and tiered single to double‑digit royalty payments on product sales.     Equity Agreements
     In June 2015, BMS acquired 1.1 million ordinary shares, or 4.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares following the issuance, at a purchase price of $33.84 per share for aggregate consideration of $37.6 million. In August 2015, BMS acquired an additional 1.3 million ordinary shares at a purchase price of $29.67 per share for aggregate consideration of $37.9 million. Immediately after the second equity investment, BMS held 9.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares.
     We have also granted BMS two warrants. Pursuant to each agreement, BMS may at its option acquire, at a premium to the market, an additional number of shares such that BMS owns 14.9%, respectively 19.9%, of our outstanding ordinary shares immediately after such purchase. The exercise of each warrant is conditioned upon the designation of a specified number of additional collaboration targets and payment of related fees by BMS, as well as a minimum number of collaboration programs under development.
     We also entered into an Investor Agreement with BMS regarding the rights and restrictions relating to the ordinary shares to be acquired by BMS. We have granted BMS certain registration rights that allow BMS to require us to register our securities beneficially held by BMS under the Exchange Act. BMS may make up to two such demands (or three, in the event that either warrant is exercised) for us to register the shares, provided that we may deny such demand if (i) the market value of the shares to be registered is less than $10 million (provided however, if BMS holds less than $10 million worth of our shares, we must comply with their demand for registration), (ii) we certify to BMS that we plan to effect a registration within 120 days of their demand or we are engaged in a transaction that would be required to be disclosed in a registration statement and that is not reasonably practicable to be disclosed at that time, or (iii) we have already effected one registration statement within the twelve months preceding BMS’s demand for registration. In addition, independent of their demand registration rights, upon the occurrence of certain events, we must also provide BMS the opportunity to include their shares in any registration statement that we effect.
     We have also granted BMS certain information rights under the Investor Agreement, although these requirements may be satisfied by our public filings required by U.S. securities laws.
     Pursuant to the Investor Agreement, without our consent, BMS may not (i) acquire a number of shares such that the number of shares that BMS beneficially holds is greater than the percentage acquired, or which may be acquired, after giving effect to each of the tranches under the Share Subscription Agreement and the two warrants; (ii) propose, offer or participate in any effort to acquire us or one of our subsidiaries; (iii) propose, offer or participate in a tender offer for our shares or any exchange of shares that would effect a change of control of our company; (iv) seek to control or influence our governance or policies; (v) join or participate in any group regarding the voting of our ordinary shares; or (vi) take certain other similar actions. BMS may still, among other things, make a non‑public, confidential proposal to enter into a business combination or similar transaction with our company. These stand still restrictions will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events including, but not limited to, the acquisition of a certain material number of shares by a third party, if we enter into a merger agreement or similar transaction with a third party, or upon the passage of a defined period of time subsequent to the acquisition of shares pursuant to the Share Subscription Agreement or the warrants.
     BMS is also subject to a lock‑up pursuant to the Investor Agreement. Without our prior consent, BMS may not sell or dispose of its shares until the later of (i) the fourth anniversary of the purchase of the first tranche of shares pursuant to the Share Subscription Agreement (or fifth anniversary if the Collaboration Agreement is extended), or (ii), in respect of each ordinary share acquired pursuant to the Share Subscription Agreement and the warrants, the first anniversary of 

 
  11


 
issuance of each such ordinary shares. However, this lock‑up may terminate sooner in the event the Collaboration Agreement is terminated.
     The Investor Agreement also requires BMS to vote all of our ordinary shares it beneficially holds in favor of all items on the agenda for the relevant general meeting of shareholders of our company as proposed on behalf of our company, unless, in the context of a change of control or similar transaction, BMS has itself made an offer to our company or our supervisory or management boards in connection with the transaction that is the subject of the vote, in which case it is free to vote its shares at its discretion. This voting provision will terminate upon the later of the date on which BMS no longer beneficially owns at least 4.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares, the closing of a transaction that provides BMS exclusive and absolute discretion to vote our shares it beneficially holds, or the termination of the Collaboration Agreement for breach by us.
     Chiesi collaboration
     On April 20, 2017, we announced that we would not pursue the renewal of the Glybera marketing authorization in Europe when it expired on October 25, 2017. The marketing authorization was withdrawn and the Glybera Commercialization Agreement was terminated. We will be responsible for terminating the Phase IV post-approval study. We recorded $0.9 million contract termination cost in 2017.
     On July 26, 2017, we entered into an agreement with Chiesi to reacquire the rights to co-develop and commercialize hemophilia B gene therapy in Europe and other selected territories and to terminate our co-development and license agreement. 
     Early‑Stage Collaborations
     4D Molecular Therapeutics (“4D”)
     In January 2014, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with 4D for the discovery and optimization of next‑generation AAV vectors targeting the CNS and liver. We funded a three‑year (2014‑2016) research collaboration, which was extended for an additional year, under a mutually agreed research plan and ended January 18, 2018. We have selected a specified number of AAV variants from the research collaboration and have exclusive rights to further research, develop, manufacture and commercialize the selected AAV variants and products containing such AAV variant. Our obligations under the agreement include payments for the achievement of specified preclinical, clinical and regulatory milestones for each licensed product that we develop under the collaboration. We have also agreed to pay 4D royalties equal to a single‑digit percentage of net sales, if any, of licensed products by us or our affiliates.     Synpromics
     In January 2015, we entered into an agreement with Synpromics, a United Kingdom‑based biotechnology company, pursuant to which we intend to jointly fund research relating to the development of optimized viral promoters. The research is directed at the discovery of alternative small liver‑specific promoters for sustainable and increased expression of larger therapeutic genes fitting the package capacity of AAV vectors. Under the agreement, we have agreed to fund a specific testing program on liver promoters, with payments based on the achievement of specified milestones. Following the conclusion of the non‑clinical testing phase, further milestones and payments have been agreed through the clinical phase of development and commercialization of products consisting of promoters developed under this agreement.
 From this partnership, we have identified several promising liver-directed promoters and are currently in the process of evaluating them for use in future gene therapy programs targeting liver-directed diseases.
     Intellectual Property
     Introduction
     We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patent protection in the United States, Europe and other countries for novel components of gene therapies, the chemistries and processes for manufacturing these gene therapies, the use of these components in gene therapies and other inventions and related technology that are important to our business, such as those relating to our technology 

 
  12


 
platform. We also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection.
     Our success will be significantly enhanced by our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know‑how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know‑how, continuing technological innovation and in‑licensing opportunities to develop, strengthen and maintain our proprietary position in the field of AAV‑based gene therapies.
     In some cases, we are dependent on the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to develop and commercialize our products. We must obtain licenses from such third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. For example, we license from third parties essential parts of the therapeutic gene cassettes as well as the principal AAV vectors we use and key elements of our manufacturing process. We anticipate that we will require additional licenses in the future.
     Because most patent applications throughout the world are confidential for 18 months after the earliest claimed priority date, and since the publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent or file applications for the inventions covered by our pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in post‑grant proceedings in the patent offices of the United States or foreign jurisdictions, such as oppositions, reexaminations or interferences, in which the patentability or priority of our inventions are challenged. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us.
     Our intellectual property portfolio consists of owned and in‑licensed patents, licenses, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights.
     Patent Portfolio
     Our gene therapy programs are protected by patents and patent applications directed to various aspects of our technology. For example, our gene therapy programs are protected by patents and patent applications with composition‑of‑matter or method of use claims that cover the therapeutic gene, the promoter, the viral vector capsid or other specific parts of these technologies. We also seek protection of core aspects of our manufacturing process, particularly regarding our baculovirus expression system for AAV vectors in insect cells. In addition, we have filed manufacturing patent applications with claims directed to alternative compositions‑of‑matter and manufacturing processes to seek better protection from competitors.
     We file the initial patent applications for our commercially important technologies in both Europe and the United States. For the same technologies, we typically file international patent applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (“PCT”) within a year. We also may seek, usually on a case‑by‑case basis, local patent protection in Canada, Australia, Japan, China, India, Israel, South Africa, New Zealand, South Korea and Eurasia, as well as South American jurisdictions such as Brazil and Mexico.
     As of December 31, 2017, our intellectual property portfolio includes the following rights:
    
· | 16 patent families that we own;
--+--------------------------------


· | 4 patent families that we exclusively in‑license; and
--+------------------------------------------------------


· | 1 patent families that we non‑exclusively in‑license.
--+------------------------------------------------------

      As of December 31, 2017, the geographic breakdown of our owned patent portfolio is as follows:
    
· | 15 issued U.S. patents;
--+------------------------


· | 10 granted European Patent Office patents;
--+-------------------------------------------

     
 
  13


 


· | 1 pending PCT patent application;
--+----------------------------------


· | 11 pending U.S. patent applications;
--+-------------------------------------


· | 12 pending European Patent Office patent applications; and
--+-----------------------------------------------------------


· | 55 pending and 43 granted patent applications in other jurisdictions.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------

      The patent portfolios for our manufacturing platform and most advanced programs are summarized below.
     Owned Manufacturing Patents 
     We own a patent family directed to large scale production of AAV vectors in insect cells. The family includes issued patents in the United States, Europe, Japan and other jurisdictions and pending applications in the United States and other jurisdictions. The standard 20‑year term for patents in this family will expire in 2027. This patent family relates to first‑generation technology developed by uniQure for improvement of manufacturing in insect cells.
     Furthermore, we own patent families directed to improving AAV vectors and covering AAV vectors manufactured at large scale relating to our second‑generation technology. One patent family contains pending applications in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions, and issued patents in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia, China and other jurisdictions. The standard 20‑year term for patents in this family will expire in 2028. We have another patent family which contains an issued patent in the US and pending patents in the United States and Europe. The standard 20‑year term for patents in this family will expire in 2031. We also have a patent family relating to our third-generation technology for improved manufacturing. The patent family contains issued patents in the United States and Europe and other jurisdictions, and has patents pending in Europe and other jurisdictions. The standard 20-year term for patents in this family will expire in 2029.
     We own patent families related to improved AAV manufacturing with regard to capsid protein expression. One patent family contains patents issued in the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. The standard 20-year term for patents in this family will expire in 2026. A more recent patent family contains pending patent applications in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions. Those patents in this family that have been issued will have the standard 20-year term which will expire in 2035
     In addition, we own a family of patents and patent applications relating to a proprietary baculovirus removal process which contributes to obtain regulatory compliant AAV vector products. This family includes granted patents in the United States, Europe, Japan, China, and other jurisdictions. The standard 20‑year term for patents in this family, if issued, will expire in 2032. 
     We own a patent family related to the analysis of manufactured AAV product. Patents are pending in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions. The standard 20‑year term for patents in this family, if issued, will expire in 2035.
     We own a family of patent applications which covers AAV5 administration technology through intrathecally delivery routes. This family includes patent applications in the US, Europe and other jurisdictions. The standard 20‑year term of patents, if issued, in this family will expire in 2034.
     We own a PCT-application, and a concomitantly filed US patent application, which covers AAV5 administration technology in patients utilizing an immunoadsorption procedure. The standard 20-year term of patents in this family, if issued, will expire in 2037.
     Owned Product‑related Patents
     Hemophilia B
     We own a patent family, including patents and patent applications, that relates to the use of the Padua mutation in hFIX for gene therapy in AMT-061. A PCT application was filed on September 15, 2009, and patent applications are pending in the United States, Europe, and Canada. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued U.S. Patent 9,249,405 on February 2, 2016, which includes claims directed to Factor IX protein with a leucine at the R338 position of the protein 

 
  14


 
sequence, nucleic acid sequences coding for this protein, and therapeutic applications, including gene therapy. Additional fast track divisional patent applications have also been filed in the United States and in Europe that would further strengthen our intellectual property position. The standard 20-year patent term of patents in this family will expire in 2029.
     Huntington’s disease
     We own a patent family that relates to gene therapy treatment of Huntington’s disease. This family includes patent applications in the US, Europe and other jurisdictions. The standard 20-year patent term of patents in this family will expire in 2035.
     S100A1
     We hold patents related to our S100A1 product candidate in heart and skeletal muscle diseases. The patents were granted in Europe, Canada, Japan and the US, the term of which will expire in 2020.
     Licenses
     We have obtained exclusive or non‑exclusive rights from third parties under a range of patents and other technology that we use in our product and development programs, as described below. Our agreements with these third parties generally grant us a license to make, use, sell, offer to sell and import products covered by the licensed patent rights in exchange for our payment of some combination of an upfront amount, annual fees, royalties, a percentage of amounts we receive from our licensees and payments upon the achievement of specified development, regulatory or commercial milestones. Some of the agreements specify the extent of the efforts we must use to develop and commercialize licensed products. The agreements generally expire upon expiration of the last‑to‑expire valid claim of the licensed patents. Each licensor may terminate the applicable agreement if we materially breach our obligations and fail to cure the breach within a specified cure period.     Technology Used for Multiple Programs
     We are exploiting technology from the third party sources described below in more than one of our programs.
     National Institutes of Health—AAV production
     In 2007, we entered into a non‑exclusive license agreement with the NIH, which we amended in 2009 and 2013. The patents under this license cover technology to produce AAV vectors in insect cells. We may only grant sublicenses under this agreement with the NIH’s consent, which may not be unreasonably withheld. The standard 20‑year term for the underlying patents will expire in 2022.
     Payment obligations to the NIH under this license agreement include a low single‑digit percentage royalty on the net sales of licensed products by us or on our behalf; development and regulatory milestone payments; and an annual maintenance fee creditable against royalties. We do not have to pay royalties or milestone fees under this agreement if we have to pay royalties or milestone fees under our 2011 agreement with the NIH, described below, for the same product. Under the license agreement, we have agreed to meet benchmarks in our development efforts, including as to development events, clinical trials and marketing approval, within specified timeframes.
     The NIH may terminate this agreement in specified circumstances relating to our insolvency or bankruptcy. We may terminate this agreement for any reason, in any territory, subject to a specified notice period. 
     National Institutes of Health—AAV5
     In 2011, we entered into another license agreement with the NIH, superseding an earlier agreement. This agreement was amended in 2016. Under this agreement, the NIH granted us an exclusive, worldwide license to patents relating to AAV5 for use in therapeutic products to be delivered to the brain or liver for treatment of human diseases originating in the brain or liver but excluding arthritis‑related diseases, and a non‑exclusive, worldwide license to patents relating to AAV5 for all other diseases. We refer to the products licensed under this agreement as AAV5 products. We may grant sublicenses under this agreement only with the NIH’s consent, which may not be unreasonably withheld. The standard 20‑year term for the underlying patents will expire in 2019.

 
  15


 

     Payment obligations to the NIH under this license agreement include royalties equal to a low single‑digit percentage of net sales of AAV5 products; development and regulatory milestone payments; and an annual maintenance fee creditable against royalties. If an AAV5 product is also covered by our 2007 agreement with the NIH, our obligation to pay royalties on net sales and our obligation to pay milestone fees only apply under this 2011 agreement and not the 2007 agreement. We have agreed to meet benchmarks in our development efforts, including as to development events, clinical trials and marketing approval, within specified timeframes.
     The NIH may terminate this agreement in specified circumstances relating to our insolvency or bankruptcy. We may terminate this agreement for any reason, in any country or territory, subject to a specified notice period 
     Protein Sciences
     In 2016, we revised our existing license contract with Protein Sciences Corporation for the use of its expresSF+ (“SF+”) insect cell line and associated technology for human therapeutic and prophylactic uses (except influenza) to provide us with a royalty free, perpetual right and license to the licensed technology in the field of AAV‑based gene therapy.     Technology Used for Specific Development Programs
     Hemophilia B (AMT-061)
     Padua
    
On April 17, 2017, we entered into an Assignment and License Agreement with Professor Paolo Simioni (“Dr. Simioni”) (the “Padua Assignment”). Pursuant to the Padua Assignment, we acquired from Dr. Simioni all right, title and interest in a patent family covering the variant of the Factor IX gene, carrying an R338L mutation (“Padua IP”). Under the Padua Assignment, we have also licensed certain know-how included in the Padua IP. We will provide Dr. Simioni with an initial license fee and reimbursement of past expenses, as well as payments that may come due upon the achievement of certain milestone events related to the development of the Padua IP and may also include royalties on a percentage of certain revenues. We have granted a license back of the Padua IP to Dr. Simioni for therapeutic or diagnostic use of a modified Factor IX protein (other than in connection with gene therapy) and any application for non-commercial research purposes. We have agreed to indemnify Dr. Simioni for claims arising from our research, development, manufacture or commercialization of any product making use of the Padua IP, subject to certain conditions.  The Padua Assignment will remain in effect, unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the terms of the Padua Assignment, until the later of (i) the expiration date of the last of the patents within the Padua IP and (ii) the expiration of the payments obligations under the Padua Assignment.
     Dr. Simioni is serving as advisor and consultant to us for the development of therapeutic products using his invention of FIX-Padua. He will assist in our discussions with regulators, investigators, and key opinion leaders throughout the clinical development of AMT-061.
     St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital
     In 2008, we entered into a license agreement with St. Jude, which we amended in 2012. Under the license agreement, St. Jude has granted us an exclusive license, with a right to sublicense, to patent rights relating to expression of hFIX in gene therapy vectors, to make, import, distribute, use and commercialize products containing hFIX covered by a valid patent claim in the field of gene therapy for treatment or prophylaxis of hemophilia B. In addition, we have a first right of negotiation regarding any patent applications that are filed by St. Jude for any improvements to the patent rights licensed to us. The U.S. patent rights will expire in 2028 and the European patents will expire in 2025.
     We have agreed to pay St. Jude a royalty equal to a low single‑digit percentage of net sales, if any, by us or our sublicensees of products covered by the licensed patent rights, and a portion of certain amounts we receive from sublicensees ranging from a mid‑single digit to a mid‑teen double‑digit percentage of such amounts. We have also agreed to pay St. Jude one‑time milestone fees totaling $6.5 million upon the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones, and an annual maintenance fee creditable against royalties and milestones in the same year. We 

 
  16


 
have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to diligently develop and commercialize products licensed under this agreement.
     The agreement will remain in effect until no further payment is due relating to any licensed product under this agreement or either we or St. Jude exercise our rights to terminate it. St. Jude may terminate the agreement in specified circumstances relating to our insolvency. We may terminate the agreement for convenience at any time subject to a specified notice period.
     Huntington’s disease
     Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (“CSHL”)
     In December 2015, we concluded a license agreement with CSHL. Under the agreement, CSHL granted us an exclusive, sublicensable license to develop and commercialize to certain of CSHL’s patented RNAi‑related technology for the treatment or prevention of Huntington’s disease. The standard 20-year patent term for the patent family which is the subject of this license agreement is about to expire in 2031.
     Under the agreement, annual fees, development milestone payments and future single‑digit royalties on net sales of a licensed product are payable by uniQure to CSHL.
     Congestive heart failure
     Heidelberg University Hospital 
     In June 2017, we concluded a license agreement with Heidelberg University Hospital for exclusive, worldwide and unlimited rights, with the right to sublicense, to patents directed to S100A1.  Under the agreement, development and approval milestone payments, and future sub-single-digit royalties on net sales of a licensed product are payable by uniQure to Heidelberg University Hospital.
     This license relates to a medical use patent family relating to the therapeutic window and effective dosages of S100A1 in heart disease, patents are pending in the US, Europe, Canada and Japan. The standard 20-year patent term of patents in this family will expire in 2035.
     Trade Secrets
     In addition to patents and licenses, we rely on trade secrets and know‑how to develop and maintain our competitive position. For example, significant aspects of the process by which we manufacture our gene therapies are based on unpatented trade secrets and know‑how. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes and obtain and maintain ownership of certain technologies, in part, through confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors and commercial collaborator. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data, trade secrets and know‑how by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems.     Trademarks
     uniQure is a registered trademark in various jurisdictions including the United States and the European Union. We intend to seek trade mark protection for other product candidates as and when appropriate.     Competition
     The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including in the gene therapy field, are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on intellectual property. We face substantial competition from many different sources, including large and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions.
     We are aware of numerous companies focused on developing gene therapies in various indications, including AGTC, Abeona Therapeutics, Adverum Biotechnologies, Allergan, Ally Therapeutics, Audentes Therapeutics, AveXis, 

 
  17


 
Bayer, BioMarin, bluebird bio, Expression Therapeutics, Freeline Therapeutics, Generation Bio, Genethon, GlaxoSmithKline, Homology Medicines, Lysogene, Megenics, Milo Therapeutics, Nightstar, Pfizer, REGENXBIO, Renova Therapeutics, Rocket, Pharmaceuticals, Sangamo BioSciences, Sanofi, Sarepta, Shire, Solid Biosciences, Spark Therapeutics, Takara, Ultragenyx, and Voyager, as well as several companies addressing other methods for modifying genes and regulating gene expression. Although companies and research institutions in the gene therapy field tend to focus on particular target indications, any advances in gene therapy technology made by a competitor may be used to develop therapies competing against one of our product candidates. We may also face competition with respect to the treatment of some of the diseases that we are seeking to target with our gene therapies from protein pharmaceuticals under development at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as Amgen, Bayer, Biogen, BioMarin, CSL Behring, Ionis, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche, Sangamo, Sanofi, Shire, Sobi, Spark, and numerous other pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms.
     We also compete with existing standards of care, therapies and symptomatic treatments, as well as any new therapies that may become available in the future for the indications we are targeting.
     Many of our current or potential competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and gene therapy industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early‑stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.
     The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our programs are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third party payers. We also believe that, due to the small size of the patient populations in the orphan indications we target, being first to market will be a significant competitive advantage. We believe that our advantages in vector and manufacturing technology will allow us to reach market in a number of indications ahead of our competitors, and to capture the markets in these indications.
     Government Regulation and Reimbursement
     Government authorities in the United States, European Union and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the approval, research, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacture (including any manufacturing changes), packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post‑approval monitoring and reporting, reimbursement, and import and export of pharmaceutical products, biological products and medical devices. We believe that all of our product candidates will be regulated as biological products, or biologics, and in particular, as gene therapies, and will be subject to such requirements and regulations under U.S. and foreign laws. For other countries outside of the United States and the European Union, marketing approval and pricing and reimbursement requirements vary from country to country. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, refusal to approve pending applications, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
     Regulation in the United States
     In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Public Health Service Act (“PHSA”) and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FCDA”) and regulations and guidance implementing these laws. Obtaining regulatory approvals and ensuring compliance with applicable statutes and regulatory requirements entails the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources, including payment of user fees for applications to the FDA. All of our current product candidates are subject to regulation by the FDA as biologics. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new biologic in the United States must typically undertake the following:
    
· | completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA’s current Good Laboratory Practice (“cGLP”) regulations;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) which allows human clinical trials to begin unless the FDA objects within 30 days;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 
  18


 

    
· | approval by an independent institutional review board (“IRB”) before each clinical trial may be initiated;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | performance of adequate and well‑controlled human clinical trials in accordance with the FDA’s or EMA’s good clinical practices (“GCP”) to establish the safety, potency, purity and efficacy of the proposed biological product for each indication;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | preparation and submission to the FDA of a Biologics License Application (“BLA”);
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | payment of substantial product and establishment user fees;
--+------------------------------------------------------------


· | satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with cGMP requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | approval of the BLA by the FDA, in consultation with an FDA advisory committee, if deemed appropriate by the FDA; and
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | compliance with any post‑approval commitments, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (“REMS”), and post‑approval studies required by the FDA.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Human Clinical Studies in the US under an IND
     Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational biologic to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with cGCP requirements. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. A clinical trial may not proceed in the US unless and until an IND becomes effective, which is 30 days after its receipt by the FDA unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on clinical hold. The protocol and informed consent documents must also be approved by an IRB. The FDA, an IRB, or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Information about certain clinical trials, including results, must be submitted within specific timeframes for listing on the ClinicalTrials.gov website.
     Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined:
    
· | Phase I: The biological product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early understanding of its effectiveness.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Phase II: The biological product is administered to a limited patient population to further identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Phase III: The biological product is administered to an expanded patient population in adequate and well‑controlled clinical trials to generate sufficient data to statistically confirm the potency and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk‑benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labelling of the product.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      FDA Guidance Governing Gene Therapy Products
     The FDA has issued various guidance documents regarding gene therapies, which outline additional factors that the FDA will consider at each of the above stages of development and relate to, among other things, the proper preclinical assessment of gene therapies; the chemistry, manufacturing, and control information that should be included in an IND application; the design and analysis of shedding studies for virus or bacteria based gene therapies; the proper design of tests to measure product potency in support of an IND or BLA application; and measures to observe delayed adverse effects in subjects who have been exposed to investigational gene therapies when the risk of such effects is high.

 
  19


 

     If a gene therapy trial is conducted at, or sponsored by, institutions receiving NIH funding for recombinant DNA research, a protocol and related documentation must be submitted to, and the study registered with, the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities (“OBA”) pursuant to the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules As part of the NIH protocol registration process, documentation originating from all oversight bodies involved in the review at an initial site(s) regarding their assessment of whether public Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (“RAC”) review is warranted must accompany the Principal Investigator’s submission to the NIH. Public RAC review and discussion of a human gene transfer experiment will be initiated in two exceptional circumstances: (1) Following a request for public RAC review from one or more oversight bodies involved in the review at an initial site(s), the NIH concurs that (a) the individual protocol would significantly benefit from RAC review and (b) that the submission meets one or more of the following NIH RAC review criteria: i) the protocol uses a new vector, genetic material, or delivery methodology that represents a first-in-human experience, thus presenting an unknown risk; ii) the protocol relies on preclinical safety data that were obtained using a new preclinical model system of unknown and unconfirmed value; or iii) the proposed vector, gene construct, or method of delivery is associated with possible toxicities that are not widely known and that may render it difficult for oversight bodies involved in the review at an initial site(s) to evaluate the protocol rigorously. In addition, many companies and other institutions not otherwise subject to the NIH Guidelines voluntarily follow them. After a human gene transfer experiment is publicly reviewed by the full RAC at a regularly scheduled meeting, the NIH OSP will send a letter summarizing the RAC’s comments and recommendations (if any) regarding the protocol to the Principal Investigator(s), oversight bodies involved in the review at an initial site(s), and regulatory authorities as appropriate. Unless the NIH determines that there are exceptional circumstances, the NIH will send this letter to the Principal Investigator within 10 working days after the completion of the RAC meeting at which the experiment was reviewed. Receipt of this letter concludes the protocol registration process. Final IBC approval may then be granted. RAC proceedings and reports are posted to the OBA web site and may be accessed by the public.
     Compliance with cGMP Requirements
     Manufacturers of biologics must comply with applicable cGMP regulations, including quality control and quality assurance and maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers and others involved in the manufacture and distribution of such products must also register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies. Both domestic and foreign manufacturing establishments must register and provide additional information to the FDA upon their initial participation in the manufacturing process. Establishments may be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by government authorities to ensure compliance with cGMPs and other laws. Discovery of problems may result in a government entity placing restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved BLA, and may extend to requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specification.
     FDA Programs to Expedite Product Development
     The FDA has several programs to expedite product development, including fast track designation and breakthrough therapy designation. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a biologic candidate may request the FDA to designate the product for a specific indication as a fast track product concurrent with or after the filing of the IND for the product candidate. The benefits include greater interactions with the FDA, eligibility for accelerated approval based on a surrogate endpoint, eligibility for priority review of the BLA, and rolling review of sections of the BLA. 
     Moreover, under the provisions of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (“FDASIA”), enacted in 2012, a sponsor can request designation of a product candidate as a breakthrough therapy. A breakthrough therapy is defined as a product that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other products, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Products designated as breakthrough therapies are eligible for the fast track program features as described above, intensive guidance on an efficient development program beginning as early as Phase 1 trials, and a commitment from the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in a proactive collaborative, cross disciplinary review.
    
 
  20


 

 Submission of a BLA
     The results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product’s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting a license to market the product for one or more indications. The submission of a BLA is subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.4 million; products with orphan designation are exempt from the BLA filing fee. The sponsor of an approved BLA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $98,000 per product and $513,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review of BLAs.
     Most such applications are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the filing acceptance date (typically 60 days after date of filing), and most applications for priority review products are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing acceptance date (typically 60 days after date of filing). The FDA will assign a date for its final decision for the product (the PDUFA date) but can request an extension to complete review of a product application,
     The FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the biological product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. Many drug applications receive complete response letters from the FDA during their first cycle of FDA review.
     If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product; require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling; require that post‑approval studies, including Phase IV clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a biologic’s safety after approval; require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization; or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (“REMS”). The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post‑market studies or surveillance programs.
     Following approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and the FDA review and approval. The product may also be subject to official lot release, meaning that the manufacturer is required to perform certain tests on each lot of the product before it is released for distribution. Other post‑approval requirements include reporting of cGMP deviations that could affect the identity, potency, purity and overall safety of a distributed product, reporting of adverse effects, reporting new information regarding safety and efficacy, maintaining adequate record‑keeping, and complying with electronic record and signature requirements.
     Biosimilars and Exclusivity
     The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 which amended the Public Health Service Act (“PHS”) authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars under Section 351(k) of the PHS. Under the Act, a manufacturer may submit an application for licensure of a biologic product that is biosimilar to or interchangeable with a previously approved biological product or reference product. In order for the FDA to approve a biosimilar product, it must find that it is highly similar to the reference product notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components and that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the reference product and proposed biosimilar product in safety, purity or potency. A finding of interchangeability requires that a product is determined to be biosimilar to the reference product, and that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product. An application for a biosimilar product may not be submitted to the FDA until four years following approval of the reference product, and it may not be approved until 12 years thereafter. These exclusivity provisions only apply to biosimilar companies and not companies that rely on their own data and file a full BLA. The twelve-year exclusivity market period in the U.S. for biologics has been controversial and may be shortened in the future.     Orphan Drug Exclusivity
     Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a biological product as an orphan drug if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a biological product available in the United 

 
  21


 
States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. If a product with orphan designation receives the first FDA approval, it will be granted seven years of marketing exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications for the same product for the same indication for seven years, unless clinical superiority is demonstrated in a head‑to‑head trial. Competitors may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity and may obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation to AMT-061 and AMT-130 for the treatment of Hemophilia B and Huntington’s disease respectively; meaning that they would receive orphan drug exclusivity if they are the first products approved for their respective indications.
     Pediatric Exclusivity
     Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act or PREA, pediatric exclusivity provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity in the US, including orphan exclusivity and exclusivity against biosimilars. This six‑month exclusivity may be granted if the FDA issues a written request to the sponsor for the pediatric study, the sponsor submits a final study report after receipt of the written request, and meets the terms and timelines in the FDA’s written request.     Regenerative Advanced Therapy Designation
     The 21st Century Cures Act became law in December 2016 and created a new program under Section 3033 in which the FDA has authority to designate a regenerative therapeutic product as a regenerative medicine advanced therapy (“RMAT”) eligible for accelerated approval. A drug is eligible for a RMAT designation if: 1) it is a regenerative medicine therapy which is a cell therapy, therapeutic tissue engineering product, human cell and tissue product, or any combination product using such therapies or products, except those products already regulated under Section 361 of the PHS, 2) the drug is intended to treat, modify, reverse, or cure a serious or life‑threatening disease or condition, and 3) preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug has the potential to address unmet medical needs for such disease or condition. A RMAT must be made with the submission of an IND or as an amendment to an existing IND. FDA will determine if a product is eligible for RMAT designation within 60 days of submission. The FDA has recently interpreted gene therapy vectors administered alone to be included in the definition of RMAT.
     FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics
     We may seek to develop companion diagnostics for use in identifying patients that we believe will respond to our gene therapies. FDA officials have issued draft guidance to address issues critical to developing in vitro companion diagnostics, such as biomarker qualification, establishing clinical validity, the use of retrospective data, the appropriate patient population and when the FDA will require that the companion diagnostic and the drug be approved simultaneously. The draft guidance issued in July 2011 states that if safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic device, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic device by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product.
     Anti‑Kickback Provisions and Requirements
     The federal anti‑kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti‑kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.
     Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating 

 
  22


 
drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off‑label promotion, have also been alleged by government agencies to violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti‑kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer.
     U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
     The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to which we are subject, prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay or authorize the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity.     Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement
     The containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal, state, independent non-profit healthcare research organizations (Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (“ICER”)) and foreign governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Third party payers are also increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining the medical necessity and cost‑effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. If these third party payers do not consider a product to be cost‑effective compared to other available therapies and or the standard of care, they may not cover the product after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow a company to sell its products at a profit. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of government‑paid health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs. Adoption of such controls and measures, and tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceuticals.
     As a result, the marketability of any product which receives regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third party payers fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on drug pricing. Coverage policies, third party reimbursement rates and drug pricing regulation may change at any time. In particular, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products, including, for example, increased rebates for drugs sold to Medicaid programs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal health care programs. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products that receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
     Regulation in the European Union
     Product development, the regulatory approval process and safety monitoring of medicinal products and their manufacturers in the European Union proceed broadly in the same way as they do in the United States. Therefore, many of the issues discussed above apply similarly in the context of the European Union. In addition, drugs are subject to the extensive price and reimbursement regulations of the various EU member states. The Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC, as amended (and to be replaced by the Clinical Trial Regulation EU 536/2014 in October 2018), provides a system for the approval of clinical trials in the European Union via implementation through national legislation of the member states. Under this system, approval must be obtained from the competent national authority of an EU member state in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. Furthermore, a clinical trial may only be started after a competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion on the CTA, which must be supported by an investigational medicinal product dossier with supporting information prescribed by the Clinical Trials Directive and corresponding national laws of the member states and further detailed in applicable guidance documents. The sponsor of a clinical trial, or its legal representative, must be based in the European Economic Area. European regulators and ethics committees also require the submission of adverse event reports during a study and a copy of the final study report.
    
 
  23


 

 Marketing approval
     Marketing approvals under the European Union regulatory system may be obtained through a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure results in the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all—currently 28—EU member states. Pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended, the centralized procedure is mandatory for drugs developed by means of specified biotechnological processes, and advanced therapy medicinal products as defined in Regulation (EC) No 1394/2007, as amended. Drugs for human use containing a new active substance for which the therapeutic indication is the treatment of specified diseases, including but not limited to acquired immune deficiency syndrome, neurodegenerative disorders, auto‑immune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, as well as drugs designated as orphan drugs pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, as amended, also fall within the mandatory scope of the centralized procedure. Because of our focus on gene therapies, which fall within the category of advanced therapy medicinal products (“ATMPs”) and orphan indications, our products and product candidates are expected to qualify for the centralized procedure.
     In the marketing authorization application (“MAA”) the applicant has to properly and sufficiently demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of the drug. Guidance on the factors that the EMA will consider in relation to the development and evaluation of ATMPs have been issued and include, among other things, the preclinical studies required to characterize ATMPs; the manufacturing and control information that should be submitted in a MAA; and post‑approval measures required to monitor patients and evaluate the long term efficacy and potential adverse reactions of ATMPs. Although these guidelines are not legally binding, we believe that our compliance with them is likely necessary to gain and maintain approval for any of our product candidates. The maximum timeframe for the evaluation of an MAA under the centralized procedure is 210 days after receipt of a valid application subject to clock stops during which the applicant deals with EMA questions.
     The European Commission may grant a so‑called “marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances”. Such authorization is intended for products for which the applicant can demonstrate that it is unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety under normal conditions of use, because the indications for which the product in question is intended are encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to provide comprehensive evidence, or in the present state of scientific knowledge, comprehensive information cannot be provided, or it would be contrary to generally accepted principles of medical ethics to collect such information. Consequently, marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, which may include the following:
    
· | the applicant must complete an identified program of studies within a time period specified by the competent authority, the results of which form the basis of a reassessment of the benefit/risk profile;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | the medicinal product in question may be supplied on medical prescription only and may in certain cases be administered only under strict medical supervision, possibly in a hospital and in the case of a radio‑pharmaceutical, by an authorized person; and
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | the package leaflet and any medical information must draw the attention of the medical practitioner to the fact that the particulars available concerning the medicinal product in question are as yet inadequate in certain specified respects.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      A marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances is subject to annual review to reassess the risk‑benefit balance in an annual reassessment procedure. Continuation of the authorization is linked to the annual reassessment and a negative assessment could potentially result in the marketing authorization being suspended or revoked. The renewal of a marketing authorization of a medicinal product under exceptional circumstances, however, follows the same rules as a regular marketing authorization. Thus, a marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances is granted for an initial five years, after which the authorization will become valid indefinitely, unless the EMA decides that safety grounds merit one additional five‑year renewal. A marketing authorization under exception circumstances will normally not lead to the completion of a full dossier and hence is unlikely to become a normal marketing authorization.
     The European Union also provides for a system of regulatory data and market exclusivity. According to Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended, and Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, upon receiving marketing authorization, new chemical entities approved on the basis of complete independent data package benefit from eight years of data exclusivity and an additional two years of market exclusivity. Data exclusivity 

 
  24


 
prevents regulatory authorities in the European Union from referencing the innovator’s data to assess a generic (abbreviated) application during the eight-year period. During the additional two‑year period of market exclusivity, a generic marketing authorization can be submitted, and the innovator’s data may be referenced, but no generic medicinal product can be marketed until the expiration of the market exclusivity. The overall ten‑year period will be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity and the innovator is able to gain the period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company obtained marketing authorization based on an MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical test, preclinical tests and clinical trials. The EMA has also issued guidelines for a comprehensive comparability exercise for biosimilars, and for specific classes of biological products.
     Additional rules apply to medicinal products for pediatric use under Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended. Potential incentives include a six‑month extension of any supplementary protection certificate granted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 469/2009, however not in cases in which the relevant product is designated as an orphan medicinal product pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, as amended. Instead, medicinal products designated as orphan medicinal product may enjoy an extension of the ten‑year market exclusivity period granted under Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, as amended, to twelve years subject to the conditions applicable to orphan drugs.
     Manufacturing and manufacturers’ license
     Pursuant to Commission Directive 2003/94/EC as transposed into the national laws of the member states, the manufacturing of investigational medicinal products and approved drugs is subject to a separate manufacturer’s license and must be conducted in strict compliance with cGMP requirements, which mandate the methods, facilities, and controls used in manufacturing, processing, and packing of drugs to assure their safety and identity. Manufacturers must have at least one qualified person permanently and continuously at their disposal. The qualified person is ultimately responsible for certifying that each batch of finished product released onto the market has been manufactured in accordance with cGMP and the specifications set out in the marketing authorization or investigational medicinal product dossier. cGMP requirements are enforced through mandatory registration of facilities and inspections of those facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could interrupt supply and result in delays, unanticipated costs and lost revenues, and subject the applicant to potential legal or regulatory action, including but not limited to warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action or possible civil and criminal penalties.
     Advertising
     In the European Union, the promotion of prescription medicines is subject to intense regulation and control, including a prohibition on direct‑to‑consumer advertising. All medicines advertising must be consistent with the product’s approved summary of products characteristics, factual, accurate, balanced and not misleading. Advertising of medicines pre‑approval or off‑label is prohibited. Some jurisdictions require that all promotional materials for prescription medicines be subjected to either prior internal or regulatory review & approval.     Other Regulatory Requirements
     A holder of a marketing authorization for a medicinal product is legally obliged to fulfill a number of obligations by virtue of its status as a marketing authorization holder (“MAH”). The MAH can delegate the performance of related tasks to third parties, such as distributors or marketing collaborators, provided that this delegation is appropriately documented and the MAH maintains legal responsibility and liability.
     The obligations of an MAH include:
    
· | Manufacturing and Batch Release. MAHs should guarantee that all manufacturing operations comply with relevant laws and regulations, applicable good manufacturing practices, with the product specifications and manufacturing conditions set out in the marketing authorization and that each batch of product is subject to appropriate release formalities.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     
 
  25


 


· | Pharmacovigilance. MAHs are obliged to establish and maintain a pharmacovigilance system, including a qualified person responsible for oversight, to submit safety reports to the regulators and comply with the good pharmacovigilance practice guidelines adopted by the EMA.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Advertising and Promotion. MAHs remain responsible for all advertising and promotion of their products, including promotional activities by other companies or individuals on their behalf and in some cases, must conduct internal or regulatory pre‑approval of promotional materials.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Medical Affairs/Scientific Service. MAHs are required to disseminate scientific and medical information on their medicinal products to healthcare professionals, regulators and patients.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Legal Representation and Distributor Issues. MAHs are responsible for regulatory actions or inactions of their distributors and agents.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Preparation, Filing and Maintenance of the Application and Subsequent Marketing Authorization. MAHs must maintain appropriate records, comply with the marketing authorization’s terms and conditions, fulfill reporting obligations to regulators, submit renewal applications and pay all appropriate fees to the authorities.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      We may hold any future marketing authorizations granted for our product candidates in our own name, or appoint an affiliate or a collaborator to hold marketing authorizations on our behalf. Any failure by an MAH to comply with these obligations may result in regulatory action against an MAH and ultimately threaten our ability to commercialize our products.
     Reimbursement
     In the European Union, the pricing and reimbursement mechanisms by private and public health insurers vary largely by country and even within countries. In respect of the public systems, reimbursement for standard drugs is determined by guidelines established by the legislator or responsible national authority. The approach taken varies from member state to member state. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits and may limit or restrict reimbursement. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products and some of EU countries require the completion of studies that compare the cost‑effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. Special pricing and reimbursement rules may apply to orphan drugs. Inclusion of orphan drugs in reimbursement systems tend to focus on the medical usefulness, need, quality and economic benefits to patients and the healthcare system as for any drug. Acceptance of any medicinal product for reimbursement may come with cost, use and often volume restrictions, which again can vary by country. In addition, results‑based rules or agreements on reimbursement may apply. Recently, a process has been formalized that allows sponsors to receive parallel advice from EMA and HTA’s for pivotal clinical studies designed to support marketing approval.     Orphan Drug Regulation
     We have been granted orphan drug exclusivity for AMT-061 for the treatment of Hemophilia B as well as for AMT-130 for the treatment of Huntington’s disease subject to the conditions applicable to orphan drug exclusivity in the European Union. Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, as amended, states that a drug will be designated as an orphan drug if its sponsor can establish:
· | that it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life‑threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the Community when the application is made, or that it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life‑threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the European Union and that without incentives it is unlikely that the marketing of the drug in the European Union would generate sufficient return to justify the necessary investment; and
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     
 
  26


 


· | that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the European Union or, if such method exists, that the drug will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 sets out further provisions for implementation of the criteria for designation of a drug as an orphan drug. An application for the designation of a drug as an orphan drug must be submitted at any stage of development of the drug before filing of a marketing authorization application.
     If an EU‑wide community marketing authorization in respect of an orphan drug is granted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended, the European Union and the member states will not, for a period of 10 years, accept another application for a marketing authorization, or grant a marketing authorization or accept an application to extend an existing marketing authorization, for the same therapeutic indication, in respect of a similar drug.
     This period may however be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established, in respect of the drug concerned, that the criteria for orphan drug designation are no longer met, in other words, when it is shown on the basis of available evidence that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a marketing authorization may be granted, for the same therapeutic indication, to a similar drug if:
    
· | the holder of the marketing authorization for the original orphan drug has given its consent to the second applicant;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | the holder of the marketing authorization for the original orphan drug is unable to supply sufficient quantities of the drug; or
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | the second applicant can establish in the application that the second drug, although similar to the orphan drug already authorized, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 lays down definitions of the concepts similar drug and clinical superiority, which concepts have been expanded upon in subsequent Commission guidance. Other incentives available to orphan drugs in the European Union include financial incentives such as a reduction of fees or fee waivers and protocol assistance. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process.
     Employees
     As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of 202 employees. As of December 31, 2017, 35 of our employees had an M.D. or Ph.D. degree, or the foreign equivalent. During 2017, we established a works council in the Netherlands. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining or other labor organizations. We believe that we have good relations with all of our employees and with the work council in the Netherlands.     Research and Development
     For information regarding research and development expenses incurred during 2017, 2016 and 2015, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations‑Research and Development.
     Corporate Information
     uniQure B.V. (the “Company”) was incorporated on January 9, 2012 as a private company with limited liability (besloten vennootschap met beperkte aansprakelijkheid) under the laws of the Netherlands. We are a leader in the field of gene therapy and seeks to deliver to patients suffering from rare and other devastating diseases single treatments with potentially curative results. Our business was founded in 1998 and was initially operated through our predecessor company, Amsterdam Molecular Therapeutics (AMT) Holding N.V (“AMT”). In 2012, AMT undertook a corporate reorganization, pursuant to which uniQure B.V. acquired the entire business and assets of AMT and completed a share-for-share exchange with the shareholders of AMT. Effective February 10, 2014, in connection with the initial public offering, the Company converted into a public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap) and changed its legal name from uniQure B.V. to uniQure N.V.
    
 
  27


 

 The Company is registered in the trade register of the Dutch Chamber of Commerce (Kamer van Koophandel) under number 54385229. The Company’s headquarters are in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and its registered office is located at Paasheuvelweg 25a, Amsterdam 1105 BP, the Netherlands and its telephone number is +31 20 240 6000. 
     Our website address is www.uniqure.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q and current reports on Form 8‑K, and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Also available through our website’s “Investor Relations Corporate Governance” page are charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominations and Corporate Governance committees of our board of directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, nor incorporating it by reference into, this report. You may read and copy any materials we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Please call the SEC at 1‑800‑SEC‑0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information that issuers (including us) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website address is http://www.sec.gov. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “uniQure” or the “Company” refer to uniQure and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    

 
  28


 

