Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
--------+----------

Overview
 We are a clinical-stage bio-pharmaceutical company focused on fighting cancer by discovering and developing novel small molecule oncology drugs that target tumor and immune cell metabolism. Tumor metabolism and immuno-oncology have emerged as promising new fields for cancer drug discovery, and recent clinical successes with therapeutic agents in each field have demonstrated the potential to create fundamentally new therapies for cancer patients. With our unique oncometabolism approach, we have discovered two small molecule drug candidates that are currently in clinical development. These agents take advantage of the unique metabolic requirements of tumor cells and cancer-fighting immune cells. Our lead product candidate, CB-839, is an internally discovered, first-in-class oral inhibitor of glutaminase, a critical enzyme in tumor cells. Our strategy is to develop CB-839 as combination therapy with approved agents, in order to improve the treatment of patients with cancer. We are currently evaluating CB‑839 in multiple Phase 2 trials in patients with renal cell carcinoma, triple negative breast cancer, and other solid tumors. CB-839 is currently in a Phase 1/2 trial in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of solid tumors. Our product candidate, INCB001158, also known as CB-1158, is a first-in-class oral inhibitor of arginase, an enzyme that depletes the amino acid arginine, a key metabolic nutrient for T‑cells, and it is being co-developed with Incyte Corporation, or Incyte, for hematology and oncology indications. INCB001158 is currently being tested in multiple Phase 1/2 trials as a monotherapy and in combination with other anti-cancer agents. 
 We are a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company with expertise in biology and chemistry, and our ongoing research efforts are focused on discovering additional product candidates against novel tumor metabolism and immunology targets. 
 Our lead product candidate, CB-839, takes advantage of the pronounced dependency many cancers have on the nutrient glutamine for growth and survival. CB-839 inhibits glutaminase, an enzyme required by cancer cells to utilize glutamine effectively. In preclinical studies, CB-839 demonstrated broad antitumor activity in tumor cell lines, inhibited the growth of human tumors in animal models, and was well-tolerated in toxicity studies. CB-839 was also synergistic with several different classes of approved, standard of care cancer therapeutics. CB-839 may also have the potential to work in combination with immuno-oncology, or I-O therapeutics. Glutamine, which is frequently depleted in the tumor microenvironment due to avid uptake by tumor cells, has been shown to be an important nutrient for T-cell proliferation. Administration of CB-839 to tumor-bearing animals substantially enhances the anti-tumor activity of checkpoint inhibitors and thereby enables T-cells to proliferate. We believe CB-839 has the potential to be an important new therapeutic agent with a novel mechanism of action for the treatment of a broad range of cancers, and is the only selective glutaminase inhibitor currently in clinical trials. We currently retain all commercial rights to CB-839 and have been granted a U.S. patent, which includes composition of matter coverage for CB-839 through 2032. 
 2


Our product candidate INCB001158, is a potent and selective orally bioavailable inhibitor of the enzyme arginase, that was discovered at Calithera and is being co-developed with Incyte. Arginase depletes arginine, a nutrient that is critical for the activation and proliferation of the body’s cancer-fighting immune cells, such as cytotoxic T-cells and natural killer (NK)-cells. During normal activation of the immune system, arginase, which is expressed by suppressive myeloid immune cells, plays an important role in halting T-cell proliferation. But in many tumors, including lung, gastrointestinal, bladder, renal cancer, squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, and acute myeloid leukemia, arginase-expressing myeloid cells accumulate and maintain an immunosuppressive environment, blocking the ability of T-cells and NK-cells to kill cancer cells. We believe that inhibitors of arginase can promote an anti-tumor immune response by restoring arginine levels, thereby allowing activation of the body’s own immune cells, including cytotoxic T-cells and NK-cells. INCB001158 is currently being evaluated in two Phase 1/2 solid tumor clinical trials and a third trial is expected to begin in the first half of 2018. We retain the rights to develop a second arginase inhibitor in non-oncology indications.
 Our Research and Development Programs
 The following table summarizes our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our lead programs in tumor metabolism and tumor immunology. We also intend to develop additional product candidates from our research and discovery efforts in these fields. 
The Evolution of Cancer Therapeutic Agents
 Cancer is characterized by the uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells in the body, leading to the invasion of essential organs and often death. Unlike normal cells, which grow only in response to carefully regulated signals from the body, cancer cells are able to proliferate largely without external signals. Cancer cells have gained this ability as the result of genetic alterations that change protein expression or function. Invasive tumors, also known as metastatic tumors, which are the greatest threat to patients, typically have multiple mutations, deletions or amplifications of genes encoding key proteins that regulate cell growth. These alterations allow the cancer cell to grow, invade other tissues, and avoid recognition and destruction by the body’s immune system.
 Initially, the pharmacological treatment of cancer utilized non-specific cytotoxic agents that targeted all rapidly dividing cells, including normal cells. These non-specific cytotoxic agents have anti-tumor effects but their use is often limited by severe toxicities. As the understanding of the proteins and pathways that enable cancer cells to thrive has evolved, newer more targeted agents have been developed that block specific proteins that are activated in cancer cells. 
 Tumor metabolism and tumor immunology represent two emerging fields for the development of therapeutics that can address the challenges presented in treating cancers with multiple mutations or with mutations that are difficult to inhibit. Certain fundamental changes in the metabolic pathways of cancer cells are observed in many cancer types with different mutational backgrounds. Therapeutic agents that can take advantage of these changes in metabolism have the potential to act broadly against many cancers. Similarly, genetically diverse tumor types have developed mechanisms to escape destruction by the body’s immune system. Pharmacological activation of the immune system with agents such as nivolumab (marketed as Opdivo®), has resulted in favorable outcomes in many tumor types, including melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer and renal cell cancer. We believe additional opportunities exist to develop novel therapeutics that can further enhance the cancer-fighting ability of the immune system, either as single agents, or in combination with approved therapeutics.
 3


Rationale for Targeting Tumor Cell Metabolism
 Cancer cells acquire the ability to grow rapidly and spread to new sites in the body by accumulating genetic alterations in important genes that control growth and survival. These same genetic changes also result in altered metabolic pathways within the cancer cells that fuel the high demand for energy and the production of new proteins, lipids, RNA and DNA needed for rapid proliferation. We and others have observed that many types of cancer cells develop a unique dependence on specific metabolic pathways upon which normal cells are not reliant. Accordingly, when these metabolic pathways are blocked, cancer cells are essentially starved of critical nutrients and stop growing or die, whereas normal cells are largely unaffected.
 Alterations in the fundamental metabolic pathways of tumors often cause a dramatic rise in the uptake of the nutrients glucose and glutamine. Uptake of these agents is often significantly greater in tumor tissue than in surrounding normal tissue. We believe the enhanced uptake of glucose and glutamine by tumors occurs because of their greater need for these nutrients for growth and survival. The primary goal of drugs targeting tumor metabolism pathways is to take advantage of cancer-specific nutrient dependencies to block cancer growth. Changes in cellular metabolism are remarkably consistent across many tumor types, yet are fundamentally different from normal cells, providing the potential to develop broadly applicable agents that target these altered pathways, but have less toxicity than standard cytotoxic drugs.
 Rationale for Targeting Immune Cell Metabolism
 Immune surveillance is the process whereby the body identifies pathogens as well as abnormal cells that are either infected with viruses or have become cancerous. Upon recognition of foreign or abnormal cells, a number of immune processes are activated to allow the body to attack and clear cells. However, excessive or inappropriate activation of the immune system can have negative consequences such as autoimmune disease, inflammation, or maternal-fetal rejection. Compensatory mechanisms have evolved to control excessive inflammatory activity by dampening the immune stimulation. Cancerous cells that successfully evade immune surveillance do so, in part, by blocking or reducing immune-stimulatory and/or enhancing immune-inhibitory activities. Immuno-oncology therapies interfere with mechanisms that tumors have used to evade immune surveillance. Immune checkpoint proteins including programmed death protein-1 (PD-1), programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) and CTLA-4 are specific molecules on tumor cells and T-cells that reduce the ability of T-cells to accomplish cytotoxic killing of tumor cells. Antibodies to PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4, known as checkpoint inhibitors, block these molecules and allow T‑cells to become activated and to kill tumor cells. These agents have demonstrated a survival benefit in patients. 
 Activated T-cells have specific nutritional requirements that are often not available within the tumor microenvironment including, in specific tumors, tryptophan, glutamine, and arginine, as shown in the diagram below. Each of these nutrients is depleted within the microenvironment by a different mechanism. Tryptophan is depleted by the action of indolamine dioxygenase, or IDO, an enzyme found in dendritic cells, certain other immune cells, and occasionally in tumors themselves. Glutamine depletion results from the avid uptake of this amino acid by tumor cells that have a very high requirement of this nutrient for growth and survival. Arginine is cleared directly from the tumor environment by arginase secreted from myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or MDSCs, and neutrophils. The end result of each of these mechanisms has been shown to be loss of T-cell or NK-cell activation and/or proliferation, resulting in the blunting of the immune response to tumor cells.
 4


Calithera is developing agents that are aimed at supporting the nutritional needs of T-cells and NK cells for glutamine and arginine, allowing the proliferation and activation of quiescent T-cells. This program is analogous to the effect of IDO on the availability of tryptophan in the tumor microenvironment. We are evaluating both CB-839 and INCB001158 in combination with immune therapies during clinical development.
 
Our Programs
 Our Glutaminase Program—a Dual Tumor Metabolism and Immuno-Oncology Target 
 It has been known for more than 50 years that most cancer cells require glutamine to thrive. Glutaminase converts glutamine to glutamate, an amino acid required by cells for several essential functions. Many cancer cells, unlike normal cells, are dependent upon the enzyme glutaminase to make sufficient amounts of glutamate to grow and survive. This higher dependency upon the glutaminase pathway is likely due to an alternate use of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (also known as TCA or Krebs cycle) in cancer cells to generate energy and metabolic intermediates required for cell growth and survival. Glutaminase inhibition in tumors implanted in animals leads to tumor reduction and marked reduction in downstream metabolic intermediates including amino acids, nucleotides and glutathione, whereas these metabolic intermediates are largely unaffected in normal tissues. This supports our hypothesis that glutaminase inhibitors can selectively target tumors. When combined with therapeutic agents that target growth factor receptors and downstream signaling pathways known to increase glucose utilization in tumor cells, it is possible to block glucose and glutamine, which we believe can provide an enhanced therapeutic benefit.
 During an immune response, T-cell metabolism partially resembles the metabolism of cancer cells, and the need for both glucose and glutamine increases markedly. The expression of the checkpoint PD-1 on T-cells following activation inhibits the uptake and utilization of glucose and blocks rapid proliferation. The checkpoint inhibitors that block PD-L1 or PD-1 restore the ability of T-cells to utilize glucose. However, T-cells require both glucose and glutamine to proliferate. We believe that the accumulation of glutamine during glutaminase inhibition has the indirect effect of supplying T-cells and NK cells with a needed nutrient. Since T-cell proliferation, unlike cancer cell proliferation, is not strongly inhibited by CB-839, we believe that combining CB-839 with inhibitors of the PD-L1/PD-1 checkpoint will support the full activation and expansion of cytotoxic immune cells in the nutrient-deprived tumor microenvironment and enhance anti-tumor responses. 
 Our Glutaminase Inhibitor CB-839 
 CB-839 is an internally-discovered, first-in-class, oral, small molecule glutaminase inhibitor. It takes advantage of the pronounced dependency many cancers have on the nutrient glutamine for growth and survival. It is a potent, selective, reversible and orally bioavailable inhibitor of human glutaminase. CB-839 binds to a unique site on glutaminase that is distinct from the site that binds glutamine, thereby reducing the potential for undesirable side effects due to inhibition of other enzymes and receptors that bind glutamine. We believe that CB-839 is the only selective glutaminase inhibitor currently in clinical trials. Our strategy is to develop CB-839 as a combination therapy with approved agents, including checkpoint inhibitors, in order to improve the treatment of patients with solid tumors. We are currently evaluating CB‑839 in Phase 2 trials in renal cell carcinoma, triple negative breast cancer and other solid tumors.
 5


Preclinical Activity of CB-839
 In our preclinical studies, CB-839 demonstrated anti-proliferative and cell killing activity across a panel of tumor cell lines. At plasma concentrations of CB-839 of 300 nM or above, maximal effects on glutamine and glutamate levels in tumors were observed. In contrast, normal tissues in the same animals showed only small changes in the levels of glutamine and glutamate, despite exposure to high levels of CB-839. We believe that normal cells and tissues can utilize other pathways to produce glutamate, whereas most tumor cells have been genetically re-wired to be highly reliant on glutaminase as their principal source of glutamate. This provides a potential explanation for why high doses of CB-839 are well tolerated in animals.
 In addition to showing single agent activity across a wide range of cells from different tumor types, CB-839 also acted synergistically when combined with drugs that target the Ras/Raf and PI3K/mTOR branches of growth factor signaling pathways. The two agents acting together have a greater effect on the growth and survival of tumor cells than either agent used separately. CB-839 was synergistic
 with the epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, inhibitor erlotinib (marketed as Tarceva®) in non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC cells, with the multikinase inhibitors sunitinib (marketed as Sutent®), sorafenib (marketed as Nexavar®), trametinib (marketed as Mekinist®), selumetinib (in development), pazopanib (marketed as Votrient®), and cabozantinib (marketed as Cabometyx®) and the mTOR inhibitors everolimus (marketed as Afinitor®) and temsirolimus (marketed as Toricel®) in renal cell carcinoma, or RCC, cells. We believe these synergistic activities likely result from the fact that growth factor pathways control tumor metabolism and ultimately tumor cell dependence on glutamine and glucose. 
 Glutaminase inhibition blocks the formation of key metabolic intermediates needed for nucleotide synthesis in cancer cells and enhances the activity of DNA synthesis blocking agents, such as cdk4/6 inhibitors, and DNA repair inhibitors, such as PARP inhibitors. CB-839 is synergistic with the CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib in ER+, estrogen-resistant breast cancer lines, which results from enhanced cell cycle blockade. Furthermore, CB-839 was recently shown to induce double-strand DNA breaks in tumor cells and had synergistic activity in vitro and in vivo in RCC cell lines with the PARP inhibitor olaparib+ (marketed as Lynparza®). 
 Inhibition of glutaminase also results in reduction in tumor pools of the antioxidant glutathione. The master transcriptional regulator NRF2 induces more than 200 genes related to antioxidant stress including genes responsible for glutathione biosynthesis. Somatic mutations in the NRF2/KEAP1 pathway are present in lung cancers, head and neck cancers, HCC and other cancer types. Lung cancer models with NRF2/KEAP1 pathway mutations showed marked sensitivity to inhibition by CB-839 which is believed to be due to pronounced dependence on tumor cell glutathione production that is blocked by glutaminase inhibition. 
 CB-839 also acted synergistically when combined with I-O drugs that inhibited the PD-1/PD-L1 immune cell checkpoint.  Because many tumor cells consume large quantities of glutamine, an important nutrient for T-cells and NK cells, the tumor microenvironment is thought to be severely depleted of this nutrient. We believe that T-cells and NK cells benefit indirectly from treatment with CB-839 by the increased availability of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment. CB-839 significantly increased the number of tumor regressions observed in syngeneic mice bearing CT-26 colorectal tumors when used in combination with an anti-PD‑1 checkpoint inhibitor, as shown in the figure below. Similar activity was observed when an anti-PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor was used in combination with CB-839. Anti PD-1 is known to increase glucose utilization in T-cells, and we believe that CB-839, by blocking tumor consumption of glutamine, increases the concentration of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment to further activate and stimulate the proliferation of T-cells and NK cells. 
 In investigational new drug, or IND, enabling toxicity studies, CB-839 was well tolerated, with no dose limiting toxicities observed in either study. The plasma concentration of CB-839 measured at the highest dose in rats in these studies was greater than ten-fold above the 300 nM concentration required in mice to achieve maximal effects on glutamine and glutamate levels in tumors and suppress tumor growth. In independent studies, CB-839 was shown to distribute broadly to all tissues except the brain, indicating that glutaminase could be strongly inhibited in normal tissues without causing any major toxicological effects.
 In February 2014, we initiated three Phase 1 clinical trials to assess the safety and tolerability of CB-839 in patients with solid and hematological tumors. CX-839-001 enrolled patients with solid tumors, CX-839-002 enrolled patients with multiple myeloma or non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and CX-839-003 enrolled patients with acute myeloid or acute lymphocytic leukemia. Most patients in these trials were relapsed and refractory to multiple approved therapies. Drug concentration generally increased with dose, and increasing concentrations of CB-839 in blood were correlated with increasing inhibition of glutaminase in blood platelets. The half-life of CB-839 in blood was approximately four hours, and dosing with food enabled the dose schedule to be modified to a BID (twice-daily) regimen. The CX-839-002 and CX-839-003 studies are no longer enrolling patients and have been completed.
 6


CB-839 has been generally well-tolerated using doses up to 1000 mg. The primary treatment-related toxicities with monotherapy CB-839 that have been observed to date on the CX-839-001 study include fatigue, gastrointestinal events (nausea, vomiting, and constipation), elevations in liver function tests, or LFTs, and photophobia. The majority of these adverse events have been mild to moderate (Grade 1/2) in severity. A similar safety profile has been observed on the CX-839-002 and -003 trials with the exception of a greater incidence of treatment emergent hematological toxicities, generally not considered treatment related.
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)
 According to the National Cancer Institute, renal cell carcinoma was diagnosed in approximately 63,990 people in 2017 in the United States. Approximately 50% of renal cell carcinoma patients will require chemotherapy at some point to treat their metastatic disease. Clear cell is the most common form of kidney cancer comprising 75-85% of cases. Most patients with clear cell RCC lack the tumor suppressor gene VHL. Preclinical studies by academic researchers have shown that VHL-deficient cell lines have an increased requirement for glutamine due to a loss of ability to make fatty acids from glucose. Accordingly, we believe that most patients with RCC tumors will have increased susceptibility to inhibition of glutaminase with CB‑839. 
 CB-839 was evaluated as a monotherapy in an RCC cohort in the dose expansion stage of our solid tumor Phase 1 clinical trial CX-839-001. As of December 31, 2017, 20 efficacy-evaluable RCC patients were treated with single agent CB-839 on the BID dosing schedule. One patient achieved a partial response with a substantial decrease in target lesions (32%), including a dramatic improvement in the patient’s extensive lymphadenopathy. A total of 10 patients (50%) showed stable disease or better.  
 In January 2018, we presented the Phase 1B RCC data of CB-839 in combination with everolimus and cabozantinib which supports the development of CB-839 in two randomized Phase 2 trials. In an updated presentation of CB-839 in combination with everolimus, 24 RCC patients, with a median of 3 prior therapies, were treated and evaluable for response. Ninety-two percent (92%) of patients experienced control of their disease, including one patient with a partial response and 21 patients with stable disease. The median progression free survival was 5.8 months, which compares favorably to historical data in this patient population. Patients were administered CB-839 in oral doses that ranged from 400-800 mg twice a day in combination with a fixed oral dose of everolimus at 10 mg once a day. The addition of CB-839 to full-dose everolimus has been well tolerated, with a similar safety profile to the known profile of everolimus alone. We also presented initial data on 12 evaluable RCC patients treated with CB-839 in combination with cabozantinib, including 10 clear cell patients, and two papillary patients. One hundred percent of evaluable patients experienced tumor shrinkage and disease control; this includes four patients who had a partial response and eight patients who had stable disease. In the clear cell patient population, the disease control rate was 100% and the response rate was 40%. Patients enrolled in the trial had advanced or metastatic disease and had received a median of three prior treatments, which included tyrosine kinase inhibitors, mTOR inhibitors, and checkpoint inhibitors. Patients were administered CB-839 in oral doses that ranged from 600-800 mg twice a day in combination with a fixed oral dose of cabozantinib at 60 mg once a day.
 On the basis of the efficacy and safety data presented, we plan to enroll two Phase 2 randomized clinical trials of CB-839 for the treatment of RCC. The Phase 2 ENTRATA trial of CB-839 in combination with everolimus in late stage patients was initiated in August 2017. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of CB-839 in combination with everolimus versus placebo with everolimus in approximately 65 patients with metastatic, clear cell RCC patients who have been treated with at least two prior lines of systemic therapy including a VEGFR-targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitor and at least one of either cabozantinib or an active PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor. Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio. The primary endpoint is progression free survival; overall survival will be assessed as a secondary endpoint. The multicenter study will be conducted at multiple sites in the United States (NCT03163667) and is expected to be fully enrolled in 2018, with primary endpoint analysis in 2019. 
 We plan to initiate the CANTATA trial, a Phase 2 randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing CB-839 in combination with cabozantinib versus placebo in combination with cabozantinib in approximately 300 clear cell renal cell carcinoma patients whom have previously received one or two prior lines of therapy, including a prior anti-angiogenic agent or nivolumab. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio. The primary endpoint is progression free survival; overall survival will be assessed as a secondary endpoint by independent review. Patients will be stratified by IMDC risk category and prior treatment with anti-PD(L)1 therapy. The study has 80% power to show a 35% improvement in progression free survival. In support of the CANTATA trial, Exelixis has entered into a material supply agreement with us for cabozantinib. The CANTATA trial is planned to initiate in the second quarter of 2018 (NCT03428217), and is expected to take approximately two years to reach the primary endpoint analysis. 
 7


Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC)
 According to the American Cancer Society, over 265,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer were diagnosed in the United States and approximately 41,000 women will die from the disease in 2018. Between 10% and 20% of newly diagnosed cases of breast cancer are classified as triple-negative breast cancer. TNBC is a subset of breast cancer that lacks the estrogen receptor, the progesterone receptor, and the HER2 receptor. TNBC patients have relatively few treatment options since they lack expression of the targets for hormone- and HER2-based therapeutics. TNBC tends to have a higher rate of metastasis, recurs sooner following first line treatment and has a poorer prognosis and a lower overall survival rate than other subtypes of breast cancer. The incidence of TNBC is higher among African American women. 
 In preclinical studies, sensitivity to CB-839 in TNBC cells was directly correlated with the level of glutaminase expression and glutamine utilization. CB-839 had anti-tumor activity as a single agent against human breast cancer tumors implanted in animals, and in combination with paclitaxel, CB-839 enhanced activity and prevented the re-growth of the tumor following discontinuation of paclitaxel dosing. Higher glutamine utilization has also been observed in estrogen receptor negative tumors relative to estrogen receptor positive tumors, and in tumor tissue from patients of African ancestry relative to tumor tissue from patients of European ancestry. 
 In the Phase 1 trial CX-839-001, we enrolled an expansion cohort of refractory TNBC patients treated with CB-839 as a single agent and an additional cohort of refractory patients treated with CB-839 in combination with paclitaxel. In the monotherapy cohort, one patient showed a 23% decrease in target lesions and remained on study for over 15 months. 
 In December 2017, we presented data on 49 triple negative breast cancer patients treated with doses of CB-839 of 400, 600 or 800 mg bid in combination with 80 mg/m2 IV paclitaxel, weekly, three weeks out of four; 44 were evaluable for response. Patients were heavily pretreated, having received a median of 3 prior therapies for advanced metastatic disease. A majority of patients had received prior taxane therapy in either the neo-adjuvant (37%) or metastatic setting (51%). Among all evaluable patients treated with CB-839 doses of at least 600 mg bid (n=37), there were 8 partial responses (22%) and disease control (response or stable disease) in 22 patients (59%). Among African Americans, there was a 36% response rate in patients who had received previous taxanes in the metastatic setting; all responders were refractory to prior taxanes. Exploratory biomarker analysis shows a trend for the strongest clinical benefit occurring in patients with desmoplastic stromal gene expression signatures. The combination of CB-839 and paclitaxel has been well tolerated to date, with adverse events that have been primarily low grade and reversible. There was one case of dose-limiting, recurrent Grade 3 neutropenia at the 400 mg dose level, which led to a reduction in the dose of paclitaxel for that patient. The most frequent adverse event ≥ Grade 3 was neutropenia (27%). A low rate of ≥ Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy (4.2%) was observed despite 88% of the patients having prior taxane exposure.
 In July 2017, we initiated CX-839-007, a Phase 2 trial of CB-839 with paclitaxel in TNBC patients. Four single arm, open label, cohorts of African American and non-African American patients will be treated in both the early stage setting, where patients have no prior taxane treatment, as well as the late stage setting after prior taxane. The primary endpoint of this trial is objective response rate and we will assess a number of predictive biomarkers. We plan to present an update on our TNBC development program in the fourth quarter of 2018. 
 Immuno-Oncology Evaluation of CB-839 with Nivolumab
 Cell lines and tumors that are treated with CB-839 in vitro or in vivo, respectively, have been shown to have a substantial increase in the content of glutamine. We believe that inhibition of glutaminase in the tumor results in a substantial increase in the concentration of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment and that this glutamine supports the growth and proliferation of cytotoxic T-cells and NK cells that reside within the tumor. Combination of CB-839 with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 in mice results in a doubling of the number of animals with complete tumor regressions. 
 In August 2016 we initiated CX-839-004, a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of CB-839 in combination with the PD-1 inhibitor nivolumab in patients with RCC, melanoma, and NSCLC. The Phase 1/2 study is designed to assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of CB-839 and nivolumab. 
 In November 2017, we presented initial data from the ongoing study of five patient cohorts. The study enrolled three cohorts of patients who have received a checkpoint inhibitor (PD-1/PD-L1) in the most recent line of therapy. Among 16 evaluable melanoma patients, all of whom were progressing on a checkpoint inhibitor at study entry, one patient achieved a complete response and two patients achieved partial responses. The overall response rate in this cohort was 19%, and the overall disease control rate was 44%. Among six evaluable NSCLC patients, all of whom were progressing on a checkpoint inhibitor at study entry, 67% experienced stable 
 8


disease. Among eight evaluable RCC patients, 75% were progressing and 25% had stable disease at study entry. Stable disease was achieved in 75%, all of whom were progressing on a checkpoint inhibitor at study entry. The study enrolled one cohort of RCC patients who have received a checkpoint inhibitor in any prior line of therapy, but never achieved a response to checkpoint therapy. Among seven evaluable checkpoint inhibitor experienced RCC patients with a median of four prior lines of therapy, 57% experienced stable disease. The study enrolled another cohort of RCC patients who were previously treated with VEGF inhibiting therapy and were naïve to checkpoint inhibitors. Among 19 evaluable checkpoint inhibitor naïve RCC patients, four patients (21%) achieved a partial response and disease control rate was 74%. An analysis of all safety evaluable patients demonstrated that CB-839 was well tolerated when combined with nivolumab in melanoma, RCC and NSCLC patients. During dose escalation of the combination therapy, there was one report of dose limiting Grade 3 ALT increase; however, no maximum tolerated dose was reported. The majority of adverse events reported have been mild to moderate with the most common being fatigue, nausea and photophobia. With 3.7% immune-related adverse events Grade ≥ 3, the data suggest there was no apparent increase in the rate or severity of immune related events compared to historical rates. 
 A collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb, originally announced in December 2016 to evaluate nivolumab in combination with CB-839 in patients with RCC, was expanded in May 2017 to include melanoma and NSCLC. In November 2017, the melanoma cohort was expanded to enroll additional patients and the collaboration was expanded such that subsequent melanoma development costs will be shared, and a joint development committee will be established to guide the development and regulatory strategy of the combination therapy.
 PIK3CA-mutated Colorectal Carcinoma (CRC)
 The oncogene PIK3CA, which encodes the p110α catalytic subunit of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase α, is one of the most frequently mutated oncogenes in human cancers. Mutations in PIK3CA are found in approximately 10-20% CRC, which will result in between 13,000 and 26,000 new cases diagnosed in the United States in 2018.
 An academic research group at Case Western Reserve University demonstrated that single agent CB-839 inhibits the growth of CRCs with PIK3CA mutations in immune-compromised mice, but CRC tumors with a normal PIK3CA gene were not inhibited. Remarkably, the combination of CB-839 with 5-florouracil induced complete and long-lasting tumor regressions in animals bearing PIK3CA mutant CRC tumors, but not tumors with normal PIK3CA, suggesting that this combinational therapy may be a unique and effective approach in the clinic. An investigator-sponsored clinical trial was initiated by Drs. Jennifer Eads, Alok Khorana, and Neal Meropol, at the Case Western Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2016. Enrollment in this study is ongoing and data from this trial have been submitted by the investigators for presentation at a medical meeting in the second quarter of 2018. 
 Our Arginase Inhibitor Program
 Tumors have evolved a number of strategies to avoid recognition and destruction by the immune system. One key mechanism is through suppression of cytotoxic T-cells that would otherwise attack and kill the cancer cells. Arginine is an amino acid that is fundamental to the function of cytotoxic T-cells. Without arginine, tumor specific cytotoxic T-cells fail to activate, proliferate, and mount an effective anti-tumor response.
 In response to tumor-secreted factors, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or MDSCs, and neutrophils accumulate in the tumor and secrete the enzyme arginase, resulting in depletion of arginine from the tumor microenvironment. Significant infiltration by arginase-expressing myeloid cells has been observed in many solid tumor types including lung, colorectal esophageal, bladder, head and neck, kidney cancer, and other tumor types. We have confirmed that arginase-expressing MDSCs are found by immunohistochemistry, or IHC, in a wide range of tumor types including non-small cell lung (both adenocarcinoma and squamous types), gastrointestinal and bladder cancers as shown in the diagram below. Arginase enzyme levels are elevated in the plasma of cancer patients across a wide range of malignancies. 
 We believe that arginase inhibitors can promote an anti-tumor immune response by restoring arginine levels, thereby allowing activation of the body’s cytotoxic T-cells. A similar process exists whereby cytotoxic T-cells are blocked from activation through depletion of the amino acid tryptophan. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, or IDO, a tryptophan metabolizing enzyme, depletes tryptophan from the tumor microenvironment resulting in suppression of T-cell function. Several clinical trials of IDO inhibitors are currently ongoing and early clinical results with epacadostat (an IDO inhibitor from Incyte) have demonstrated combination activity with ipilimumab, or anti CTLA-4, and anti-PD-1 antibodies.
 9


We have identified INCB001158 and a portfolio of other small molecule arginase inhibitors that show high potency and oral bioavailability. In January, we announced that we entered into a global collaboration and license agreement for the research, development and commercialization of our small molecule arginase inhibitor INCB001158 in hematology and oncology with Incyte Corporation. Calithera and Incyte are collaborating on and co-funding the development of INCB001158 for oncology and hematology indications, with Incyte bearing 70% and Calithera bearing 30% of global development costs, unless Calithera opts out of development co-funding. Calithera has the right to conduct a portion of clinical development studies under the collaboration, including combination studies of a licensed product with a proprietary compound of Calithera. If Calithera does not opt out of development co-funding, the parties will share profits and losses in the U.S., with 60% to Incyte and 40% to Calithera, and Calithera will have the right to co-detail the licensed product in the U.S. Calithera retains rights to certain arginase inhibitors for specific indications outside of hematology and oncology. 
 
INCB001158 has single agent anti-tumor activity in syngeneic mouse tumor models that has been demonstrated to act through an immune mechanism. The compound reduces the growth rate of mouse melanoma and lung tumors in immunocompetent mice when administered as a single agent. INCB001158 also enhances the activity of checkpoint inhibitors in the mouse breast cancer 4T1 model.  In this model, checkpoint inhibitors including anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 have no effect even when administered together. INCB001158 has anti-tumor activity in this model when added to a combination of anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4; furthermore, we observed a 75% decrease in the number of lung metastases that were observed when INCB001158 was added to this regimen. 
 Inhibition of tumor growth was accompanied by an increase in the local concentration of arginine, and the induction of multiple pro-inflammatory changes in the tumor microenvironment. Treatment with INCB001158 also enhanced the anti-tumor activity of adoptive T-cell therapy, checkpoint blockade and chemotherapy in animal models. 
 INCB001158 entered clinical trials in September 2016, and is currently being tested in a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with solid tumors. The Phase 1 trial (NCT02903914) is designed to evaluate the safety and recommended Phase 2 dose of INCB001158 as a monotherapy, and in combination with immune checkpoint therapy. We presented mono-therapy data in June 2017 at the American Society of Clinical Oncology, or ASCO, annual meeting. As of the data cut off-of April 24, 2017, a total of 17 patients with advanced solid tumors had received single agent doses ranging from 50 to 150 mg twice a day in the ongoing Phase 1 trial. INCB001158 was generally well tolerated with no drug-related serious adverse events. Treatment related adverse events were limited to one case each of Grade 1 anemia, fatigue, increased ALT and myalgia. No Grade 3 treatment-related adverse events were reported. Reversible, asymptomatic elevations of urinary orotic acid, a highly sensitive marker of urea cycle inhibition, were observed in two patients at 150 mg BID. Plasma levels of arginase were inhibited > 90% in all patients, and in 10 of 11 patients plasma arginine increased 1.5-fold or more. The pharmacokinetics support BID dosing of INCB001158, as currently tested doses continuously maintained targeted levels of arginase inhibition. 
 10


The recommended Phase 2 monotherapy dose has been selected, and several Keytruda® combination cohorts of additional tumor types have been added to the trial design. Expansion cohorts of INCB001158 dosed in combination with Keytruda® are expected to enroll patients diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma, urothelial cell carcinoma, colorectal cancer, gastroesophageal cancer, squamous cell head and neck cancer and mesothelioma. A second clinical trial (NCT03314935) designed to evaluate INCB001158 in combination with chemotherapy opened for enrollment in November 2017. The Phase 1/2 trial in patients with solid tumors (including metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer, biliary tract cancer, gastroesophageal cancer, endometrial cancer or ovarian cancer), will evaluate INCB001158 administered orally twice daily with either FOLFOX, gemcitabine/cisplatin or paclitaxel. Primary endpoints include safety and objective response rate. A third clinical trial (NCT03361228) is designed to evaluate the safety and antitumor activity of INCB001158 plus epacadostat, with or without pembrolizumab, in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors. The trial is expected to begin in the first half of 2018. We believe that INCB001158 is the only arginase inhibitor in clinical development.
 Arginase has been proposed to be critical in the pathophysiology of several non-oncology diseases, including cystic fibrosis. Sputum from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has elevated arginase activity and diminished arginine. Reduced arginine is thought to exacerbate pulmonary disease in CF by impairing production of nitric oxide, leading to diminished airway function and anti-bacterial immune response. Reduced airway nitric oxide has been observed in the bronchial airways of patients with CF, which directly correlated with worsened lung function, and increased colonization with pathogens including P. aeruginosa. Arginase is also thought to play an important pathophysiologic role in several other diseases, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and other fibrotic diseases, primary pulmonary hypertension, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and others. We retain the rights to develop a separate arginase inhibitor for development in non-oncology indications. 
 In January 2017, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement, or the Incyte Collaboration Agreement, with Incyte Corporation. Under the terms of the Incyte Collaboration Agreement, we granted Incyte an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize its small molecule arginase inhibitors for hematology and oncology indications. The parties are collaborating on and co-funding the development of the licensed products, with Incyte bearing 70% and us bearing 30% of global development costs. The parties will share profits and losses in the U.S., with 60% to Incyte and 40% to us. We will have the right to co-detail the licensed products in the U.S, and Incyte will pay us tiered royalties ranging from the low to mid-double digits on net sales of licensed products outside the U.S. We may opt out of our co-funding obligation, in which case the U.S. profit sharing will no longer be in effect, and Incyte will pay us tiered royalties ranging from the low to mid-double digits on net sales of licensed products both in the U.S. and outside the U.S., and additional royalties to reimburse us for previously incurred development costs.
 In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive license agreement, or the Arginase License Agreement, with Mars, Inc., by and through its Mars Symbioscience division, or Symbioscience, under which we have been granted the exclusive, worldwide license rights to develop and commercialize Symbioscience’s portfolio of arginase inhibitors for use in human healthcare. Under the Arginase License Agreement, we are responsible for the worldwide development and commercialization of the licensed products at our cost, are required to use commercially reasonable efforts with respect to such development and commercialization activities, and must meet certain general diligence obligations. We hold the first right to prosecute and to enforce all licensed rights under the Arginase License Agreement throughout the world, and Symbioscience will retain certain step-in enforcement rights. Under the exclusivity provisions of the Arginase License Agreement, each party agrees not to develop any other arginase inhibitors for use in human healthcare outside of the scope of the Arginase License Agreement.  
 Intellectual Property 
 Our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our product candidates, including CB-839, INCB001158, our preclinical compounds, and our core technologies. Our policy is to seek to protect our intellectual property position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to the technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business strategy. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary position.
 We file patent applications directed to our product candidates, preclinical compounds and related technologies to establish intellectual property positions on these compounds and their uses in disease. We are seeking patent protection for the use of biomarkers to identify patients most likely to benefit from treatment with our product candidates. As of December 31, 2017, we owned three issued U.S. patents, nine issued foreign patents, and approximately 140 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications in the following foreign jurisdictions: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Eurasian Patent Organization, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Taiwan, Ukraine, Venezuela, and Vietnam. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between April 2031 and December 2038.
 11


As of December 31, 2017, the intellectual property portfolio for our glutaminase inhibitor program, which includes CB-839, included three issued U.S. patents, two of which expire in 2032 and the other of which expires in 2035, claiming compositions of matter for and methods of treating cancer with CB-839. We also have nine issued foreign patents, sixteen pending U.S. patent applications and 105 corresponding pending PCT and foreign patent applications directed to compositions of matter for CB-839 and related chemical compounds, as well as methods of using these compounds. These pending patent applications also include four pending U.S. patent applications relating to methods for measuring various biomarkers in cancer patients to identify patients suitable for treatment with glutaminase inhibitors. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between November 2032 and December 2038.
 The intellectual property portfolio for our arginase inhibitor program, which includes INCB001158, includes issued patents and pending patent applications that we have exclusively licensed from Symbioscience as well as pending patent applications that we own. This portfolio includes five issued U.S. patents, seven pending U.S. patent applications, 46 corresponding pending foreign patent applications, and 23 issued foreign patents directed to various arginase inhibitors and therapeutic methods of using the compounds. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between April 2031 and December 2037.
 Manufacturing
 We do not own or operate, and currently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties to manufacture clinical supplies of CB-839 and INCB001158. CB-839 and INCB001158 are organic compounds of low molecular weight. Our third-party contract manufacturers are currently producing CB-839 and INCB001158 for use in our clinical trials utilizing reliable and reproducible synthetic processes and common manufacturing techniques. We obtain our supplies from manufacturers on a purchase order basis and do not have any long-term arrangements. In addition, we do not currently have arrangements in place for bulk drug substance or drug product services of CB-839 or INCB001158. We intend to identify and qualify additional manufacturers to provide bulk drug substance and drug product services prior to submission of a new drug application to the FDA if necessary to ensure sufficient commercial quantities of CB-839 and INCB001158. 
Research and Development
 We have and will continue to make substantial investments in research and development. Our research and development expenses totaled $43.1 million, $27.7 million, and $23.7 million, in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.
 In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials and aspects of our research and preclinical testing. These third parties provide project management and monitoring services and regulatory consulting and investigative services.
 Competition
 The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, development experience and scientific knowledge provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future.
Our principal competitors in the fields of tumor immunology and/or tumor metabolism include Arcus Biosciences, Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., AstraZeneca plc, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Bayer Pharma AG, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, CureTech Ltd., Dracen Pharmaceuticals, Dynavax Technologies Corp., Eisai Co., Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, Forma Therapeutics Holdings, LLC, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Idera Pharmaceuticals, Immunomedics Inc., Incyte Corporation, iTeos Therapeutics SA, Merck & Co., Merck KGaA, Nektar Therapeutics, NewLink Genetics Corporation, Novartis International AG, Ono Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd,  Pfizer Inc, Roche Holdings AG and its subsidiary Genentech, Inc., Sprint Biosciences, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, and TG Therapeutics, Inc.
 The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy, including chemotherapy, hormone therapy, targeted drug therapy, and immunotherapy. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. Any product candidates we develop will compete with many existing drug and other therapies. To the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, 
 12


our product candidates will not be competitive with them. Some of the currently approved drug therapies are branded and subject to patent protection, and others are available on a generic basis. Many of these approved drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. In general, although there has been considerable progress over the past few decades in the treatment of cancer and the currently marketed therapies provide benefits to many patients, these therapies all are limited to some extent in their efficacy and frequency of adverse events, and none are successful in treating all patients. As a result, the level of morbidity and mortality from cancer remains high.
 In addition to currently marketed therapies, there are also a number of therapeutics in late stage clinical development to treat cancer. These therapeutics in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any product candidate for which we may obtain market approval.
 Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved therapeutics than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.
 The key competitive factors affecting the success of CB-839, INCB001158, and any future product candidates we develop, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, synergy with other approved therapies, convenience, price and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors.
 Our competitors may develop and commercialize therapeutics that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any therapeutics that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their therapeutics more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party and government programs seeking to control healthcare costs.
 Government Regulation
 Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, including any manufacturing changes, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, import and export of pharmaceutical products, such as those we are developing.
United States Drug Approval Process
 In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implements regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits or civil or criminal penalties.
 The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:
  
• | contract manufacturing expenses, primarily for the production or purchase of clinical supplies;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA’s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 13


 
• | performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for each indication;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA;
--+---------------------------------------------------------


• | satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity; and
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | FDA review and approval of the NDA.
--+------------------------------------

 Preclinical Studies and IND
 Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential for adverse events, and in some cases, to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations for safety/toxicology studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.
 Clinical Trials
 Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined:

• | Phase 1: The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 2: The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 3: The drug is administered to an expanded patient population in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to generate sufficient data to statistically confirm the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and, more frequently, if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients.
 14


Marketing Approval
 Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information relating to the product’s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, which fees are typically increased annually.
 The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission before accepting them for filing to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review of NDAs. Under these goals, the FDA has committed to review most such applications for non-priority products within 10 months, and most applications for priority review products, that is, drugs that the FDA determines represent a significant improvement over existing therapy, within six months. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drugs or products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions.
 Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. In addition, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and integrity of the clinical data submitted.
 The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take many years to complete. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. We may encounter difficulties or unanticipated costs in our efforts to develop our product candidates and secure necessary governmental approvals, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our products.
 After the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA and inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA’s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval and refuse to approve the NDA. Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug’s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMs, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval.
 Fast Track Designation
 The FDA is required to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition for which there is no effective treatment and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new product candidate may request the FDA to designate the product for a specific indication as a fast track product concurrent with or after the submission of the IND for the product candidate. The FDA must determine if the product candidate qualifies for fast track designation within 60 days after receipt of the sponsor’s request.
 15


In addition to other benefits, such as the ability of the sponsor to have more frequent interactions with the FDA, the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product’s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. However, the FDA’s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process.
 Priority Review
 Under FDA policies, a product candidate may be eligible for priority review, or review generally within a six-month time frame from the time a complete application is accepted for filing. Products regulated by the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, are eligible for priority review if they provide a significant improvement compared to marketed products in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. A fast track designated product candidate would ordinarily meet the FDA’s criteria for priority review.
Accelerated Approval
 Under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval trials, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA.
Breakthrough Therapy Designation
 A sponsor can request designation of a product candidate as a “breakthrough therapy.” A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product candidate may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. The FDA may later decide that the product candidate no longer meets the conditions for breakthrough therapy designation.
Orphan Drugs
 Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same orphan indication, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity in that it is shown to be safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA application user fee.
Pediatric Exclusivity and Pediatric Use
 Under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, or BPCA, certain drugs may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity, if the sponsor submits information requested in writing by the FDA (a Written Request), relating to the use of the active moiety of the drug in children. The FDA may not issue a Written Request for studies on unapproved or approved indications or where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may not produce health benefits in that population.
 16


In addition, the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, requires a sponsor to conduct pediatric studies for most drugs and biologics, for a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration. Under PREA, original NDAs, biologics license application and supplements thereto, must contain a pediatric assessment unless the sponsor has received a deferral or waiver. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication where orphan designation has been granted. The required assessment must assess the safety and effectiveness of the product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The sponsor or FDA may request a deferral of pediatric studies for some or all of the pediatric subpopulations. A deferral may be granted for several reasons, including a finding that the drug or biologic is ready for approval for use in adults before pediatric studies are complete or that additional safety or effectiveness data needs to be collected before the pediatric studies begin. The FDA must send a non-compliance letter to any sponsor that fails to submit the required assessment, keep a deferral current or fails to submit a request for approval of a pediatric formulation.
 Overview of FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics
 We may seek to develop in vitro companion diagnostics for use in selecting the patients that we believe will respond to our therapeutics. In August 2014, the FDA issued a guidance document that states that if safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. The guidance addresses issues critical to developing and obtaining approval or clearance for companion diagnostics and provide guidance as to when the FDA will require that the in vitro diagnostic, which is regulated as a medical device, and the drug be approved simultaneously. The FDA requires in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to cancer treatment to obtain approval simultaneously with approval of the drug.
 Other Regulatory Requirements
 Any drug manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval.
 The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements, including REMs, as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including phase four clinical trials, and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product’s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. Regulatory approval of oncology products often requires that patients in clinical trials be followed for long periods to determine the overall survival benefit of the drug.
 In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance.
 Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information, imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a Risk Evaluation and
 Mitigation Strategy program. Other potential consequences include, among other things:
  
• | restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------


• | refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 suspension or revocation of product license approvals;
 17


 
• | product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | consent decrees, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off label uses may be subject to significant liability.
 Additional Provisions
 In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include, among others, anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.
 Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and f
or allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. Violations of
 the anti-kickback statute 
and false claims laws 
are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties
, possible 
exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs and integrity oversight and reporting obligations to resolve allegations of non-compliance with this law. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor.
 We may also be subject to additional federal and state laws related to physician transparency, data privacy and security, and pharmaceutical manufacturer compliance guidelines, including the federal Health Ins
urance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act.
 Foreign Regulation
 In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others.
New Legislation and Regulations
 From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition to new legislation, FDA regulations and policies are often revised or interpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted or whether FDA regulations, guidance, policies or interpretations changed or what the effect of such changes, if any, may be.
 18


Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we had 73 full-time employees, including 27 employees with Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. Of these full-time employees, 52 employees are engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
Facilities 
 We occupy approximately 54,000 square feet of office and laboratory space in South San Francisco, California. Our lease term is through January 2024, with an option to extend another two years to January 2026. Approximately 21,000 square feet of laboratory space have been leased to another biotechnology company under a sublease agreement that expires in February 2020. We believe that our facility is sufficient to meet our current needs and that suitable additional space will be available as and when needed.
Legal Proceedings
 From time to time, we may become involved in litigation relating to claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Our management believes that there are currently no claims or actions pending against us, the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Available Information
 We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on March 9, 2010. Our principal offices are located at 343 Oyster Point Blvd, Suite 200, South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA and our telephone number is +1 (650) 870 1000. Our website address is www.calithera.com. Information found on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make available on our website at www.calithera.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC.
  