Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

 Item 1.  Business
 As used herein, unless the context otherwise requires, ISG, the registrant, is referred to in this Form 10‑K annual report (“Form 10‑K”) as the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our.” Our Company
 ISG (Information Services Group) (“ISG”) (Nasdaq: III) is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted business partner to more than 700 clients, including 75 of the top 100 enterprises in the world, ISG is committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier services; technology strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and analysis. Based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs approximately 1,300 professionals operating in more than 20 countries—a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence, deep industry and technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on our comprehensive marketplace data.
 Our Company was founded in 2006 with the strategic vision to become a high‑growth, leading provider of information‑based advisory services. In 2007, ISG consummated its initial public offering and completed the acquisition of TPI Advisory Services Americas, Inc. (“TPI”), the pioneer in developing the market for sourcing advisory services.
 On January 4, 2011, we acquired Compass, a premier independent global provider of business and information technology benchmarking, performance improvement, data and analytics services. Headquartered in the United Kingdom, Compass was founded in 1980 and had approximately 180 employees in 16 countries serving nearly 250 clients.
 On February 10, 2011, we acquired STA Consulting, based in Austin, Texas, a premier independent information technology advisor serving the public sector. STA Consulting advises clients on information technology strategic planning and the acquisition and implementation of new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and other enterprise administration and management systems. STA Consulting was founded in 1997 and had approximately 40 professionals serving state and local government entities in the United States.
 On January 10, 2012, we announced the merger of our individual corporate brands into one globally integrated go‑to‑market business under the ISG brand. TPI, the world’s leading independent sourcing data and advisory firm; Compass, a premier independent provider of business and IT benchmarking; and STA Consulting, a premier independent technology advisory firm serving the North America public sector, have combined under the ISG brand. This merger offers clients one source of support to drive operational excellence in their organizations. 
 On March 17, 2014, we acquired 51% of Convergent Technologies Partners S.p.A. (“CTP”), a leading management consulting firm providing specialized IT and operational strategies and solutions to Italy’s public sector. At the same time CTP acquired 100% interest of Compass Management Consulting Italy (“Compass Italy”), a subsidiary of Compass Holdings BV. CTP was founded in 1999 and had approximately 15 employees in Italy. On May 2, 2017, the minority owner of ISG Italia S.p.A. exercised their put to sell their remaining 49% interest to a subsidiary of ISG.

 
  5

 

 On April 15, 2014, we executed an Asset Purchase Agreement with CCI, an Australia‑based research firm that measures and analyzes customer satisfaction in business‑to‑business relationships. CCI was founded in 2001 and had approximately 14 employees in Australia.
 On August 7, 2015, we executed an Asset Purchase Agreement with Saugatuck Technology Inc., (“Saugatuck”) a subscription-based research and analyst firm that provides C-level executives and technology business leaders with objective insights on the key market trends and emerging technologies that are driving business transformation and growth. Saugatuck was founded in 2003 and had approximately 6 employees in the United States.
 On February 29, 2016, we acquired the Experton Group AG (“Experton”), a subscription-based research, advisory and benchmarking firm.  Experton adds vendor benchmarking and advisory capabilities. Experton was founded in 2005, had approximately 15 employees and was based in Munich, Germany.
 On April 29, 2016, we executed an Asset Purchase Agreement with TracePoint Consulting LLC (“TracePoint”) an organizational change management firm.  TracePoint’s business transformation services enable enterprises to successfully manage the changes associated with digital transformations, system implementations and upgrades, mergers and acquisitions and other large-scale business change initiatives.  TracePoint was founded in 2009, had approximately 25 employees and was based in Atlanta, Georgia.
 On December 1, 2016, we acquired Alsbridge Holdings, Inc. (“Alsbridge”), a U.S.-based sourcing, automation and transformation advisory firm. Alsbridge was founded in 2003, had over 200 employees and was based in Dallas, Texas.  Alsbridge brought to ISG four key new or complementary service lines: 
 1.Network Carrier Services, a new service line for ISG that provides sourcing, audit and transformation services covering client spend with major telecommunications carriers.
 2.Robotic Process Automation (“RPA”), a new service line complementary to ISG Digital Services, that provides assessment, strategy and implementation services to clients looking to leverage RPA to make business processes more efficient as part of their overall digital transformation programs.
 3.Outsourcing Advisory, a complementary service that expanded ISG’s sourcing advisory business. 
 4.Provider Services, a complementary service to ISG’s research and provider advisory services, helps leading service and technology providers identify market opportunities and improve pursuit effectiveness and business retention with a range of subscription-based services and data.
 We continue to believe that our vision will be realized through the acquisition, integration, and successful operation of market‑leading brands within the data, analytics and advisory industry. Following the initial announcement of the merger of our individual corporate brands into one globally integrated go-to-market business under the ISG brand in January 2012, we continue to add the businesses we acquire into the ISG brand, creating one unified company.  Including our most recent acquisitions, we operate in over 20 countries and employ approximately 1,300 professionals specializing in digital transformation services, including automation, cloud and data analytic, sourcing advisory, managed governance and risk services, network carrier services, technology strategy and operation design, change management, market intelligence and technology research and analysis.
 Our private and public sector clients continue to face significant technological, business and economic challenges that will continue to fuel demand for the professional services we provide. In the private sector, for example, we believe that companies will continue to face significant challenges associated with globalization 

 
  6

 
and technological innovation, including the need to decrease operating costs, increase efficiencies and deal with increasing numbers of emerging and transformational technologies such as cloud computing. Similarly, public sector organizations at the national, regional and local levels increasingly must deal with the complex and converging issues of outdated technology systems, significantly impaired revenue sources and an aging workforce.
 Overall, we believe that the global marketplace dynamics at work in both the private and public sectors mitigate in favor of the professional services, analytics and advice ISG can provide. In this dynamic environment, the strength of our client relationships greatly depends on the quality of our advice and insight, the independence of our thought leadership and the effectiveness of our people in assisting our clients to implement strategies that successfully address their most pressing operational challenges.
 We are organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware. The current mailing address of the Company’s principal executive office is: Information Services Group, Inc., Two Stamford Plaza, 281Tresser Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901. Our telephone number is (203) 517‑3100.
 Our Services
 ISG specializes in digital transformation services, including automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier services; technology strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and analysis.  ISG supports both private and public sector organizations to transform and optimize their operational environments.  During periods of expansion or contraction, for enterprises large or small, public or private, in the Americas, Europe or Asia Pacific, our services have helped organizations address their most complex operational issues. The functional domain experience of our experts and deep empirical data resources help clients better understand their strategic options. We provide four key lines of service:
 Research.  We utilize our extensive experience and proprietary data assets to provide subscription and custom research services to senior business and IT executives, technology and software vendors and business/IT services providers. Our mission is to help our clients make better business decisions and create new business value through trusted and objective insights into the key market trends and emerging technologies driving real change. Our combined data sources, compiled from over 30 years of servicing global corporations, provide a rich source of benchmark data into the comparative cost and quality of operational alternatives. For enterprise clients, we use these data sources to provide them with in‑depth analysis into the implications of different service strategies, allowing them to compare and contrast and make informed decisions regarding strategic change. For service providers, our views into the buying behaviors, needs and objectives of global corporations examining transformation of their operations provide unique insights that help them tailor and market their offerings to these enterprises. ISG’s research will continue to play a supporting role for digital services with the production of our Index Reports which include coverage of technology providers, SaaS providers, Cloud and automation platforms in addition to the traditional service provider outsourcing industry. 
 Consulting.  We help private and public sector organizations transform and optimize their operational environments with a complete range of consulting services, focusing on information technology, business process transformation, program management services and enterprise resource planning. ISG consulting services include: Financial Analysis, Mergers and Acquisitions, 

 
  7

 
Network Services, Operating Model Design & Implementation, Operations Benchmarking, Organizational Change Management, Performance Management, Qualitative Assessment, Renegotiations, RFX Services, RPA, Strategy, Transition and Transformation. We assist clients with envisioning, designing and implementing change in their operational environments. We evaluate existing practices and operating costs, identifying potential improvement opportunities to enhance service delivery, optimize operations or reduce costs. Solutions are customized by a client situation and may include internal transformation, the adoption of external strategies, or some combination of both. In all cases, we assist with the selection, implementation and ongoing support for these strategic initiatives.
 Managed Services.  Our Managed Services offerings helps clients realize the cost savings and operating eﬃciencies they expect from their sourcing arrangements. We provide operational governance services to our clients to ensure seamless end‑to‑end service. Our systems, tools and controls are designed to consistently govern third-party agreements, and our expertise in service integration and management helps clients achieve operational excellence in multi-supplier environments. These offerings assist clients with monitoring and managing their supplier relationships, providing them with real‑time accurate market intelligence and insights into all aspects of provider performance and cost, allowing them to focus on the more strategic aspects of supplier management.
 Events. ISG Events offers a range of industry-leading conferences including,  the ISG Sourcing Industry Conference (SIC) series, the premier annual event for service and technology providers in the Americas, EMEA and India; the ISG Executive Provider Summit, a high-value gathering of C-suite provider executives and ISG partners; the ISG Digital Business Summit series, regional events focused on emerging business technologies; the ISG Automation Summit, a conference focused on the latest trends in automation, and the ISG Paragon Awards™, honoring organizations for their contributions to the continuing evolution of sourcing.
 Our Competitive Advantages
 We believe that the following strengths differentiate us from our competition:
 Independence and Objectivity.  We are not a service provider. We are an independent, fact‑based data, analytics and advisory firm with no material conflicting financial or other interests. This enables us to maintain a trusted advisor relationship with our clients through our unbiased focus and ability to align our interests with those of our clients.
 Domain Expertise.  Averaging over 20 years of experience, our strategic consulting teams bring a wealth of industry and domain‑specific knowledge and expertise to address our clients’ most complex transformational needs.
 Strong Brand Recognition.  ISG continues to gain marketplace traction as a leading brand in our industry after merging its TPI, Compass, STA Consulting, CCI, CTP, Saugatuck, Experton, TracePoint and Alsbridge brands into one go‑to‑market brand: ISG.  ISG offers an integrated product and service offering for our clients as one, unified company. 
 Proprietary Data Assets and Market Intelligence.  We have assembled a comprehensive and unique set of data, analytics and market intelligence built over more than thirty years of data collection and 

 
  8

 
analysis, providing insight into the comparative cost and quality of a variety of operational alternatives.
 Global Reach.  We possess practical experience in global business operations, and we understand the significance of interconnected economies and companies. Our resources in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific make us a truly global advisory firm able to consistently serve the strategic and implementation needs of our clients.
 We believe that the strengths disclosed above are central to our ability to deal successfully with the challenges that we face.
 Our Strategy
 We intend to use our competitive strengths to develop new services and products, sustain our growth and strengthen our existing market position by pursuing the following strategies:
 Preserve and Expand Our Market Share Positions.  We expect the trend toward globalization and greater operating efficiency and technological innovation to play an increasing role in the growth of demand for our services.  We plan to leverage our combined operating platform to serve the growing number of private and public enterprises utilizing outside advisors when undertaking transformational projects. In addition, we will seek to continue to expand our products and services and the geographic markets we serve opportunistically as global competition spurs demand for cost savings and value creation.
 Strengthen Our Industry Expertise.  We have strengthened our market facing organization to drive increased revenue around seven key areas — (i) Banking and Financial Services; (ii) Insurance; (iii) Manufacturing, Communications and Multimedia; (iv) Energy, Life Sciences and Healthcare;  (v) Technology; (vi) Travel, Retail and Enterprise; (vii) Private Equity; and (viii) Public Sector/Government.
 Expand Geographically.  Historically, we generated the majority of our revenues in North America.  Beginning in 2011, we made significant investments in Europe and Asia Pacific to capitalize on emerging demand for advisory, benchmarking and analytical insight in these geographic regions. The acquisition of Compass, CTP, CCI and Experton expanded our geographic reach, particularly in Europe and Australia.  The acquisitions of Saugatuck, TracePoint and Alsbridge increased the amount of our revenues we generated in North America.
 Aggressively Expand Our Market Focus.  We are seeking to drive our service portfolio and relationships with clients further into: Digital Advisory Services including Cloud Solutions, Automation, Business Advisory Services, Strategy, Data & Analytics, Transition and Organization & Operations are all areas where we are investing additional focus to drive increased revenues and expanded relationships with clients.
 Further Develop Digital and Cloud Competency.  There is a nexus of distinct, yet complementary, technology trends that are creating a perfect storm of disruption for some companies. Among the most significant technology trends are the speed with which products get to market, large‑scale digitization, the efficiency of the cloud and the immediacy with which new disruptors can become omnipresent. ISG plans to expand resources and intellectual property (“IP”) around digitization and the cloud. Digitization is the ‘softwarization’ of business. Processes that were once executed over 

 
  9

 
analog channels (such as phone and ‘real life’) increasingly happen over software. Also, digitization has elevated the profile of software. Software no longer merely supports business processes, but is central to the enterprise strategy. Our purpose in the digital marketplace is to be the trusted advisor, guiding our clients through the digital transformation toward practical innovation of their business models, leveraging strategic partners, emerging technology and thought leadership. 

Our digital services now span a volume of offerings and have become embedded as part of even our traditional transaction service. Advancements continue to be made to ‘digitize’ further our traditional services.  For example, transaction services have been fully modernized with the launch of ISG FutureSourceTM in October which incorporates digital tools and methods used to support our clients in the digital age of sourcing.  Further, with the launch of ISG GovernXTM at mid-year, ISG Governance Services now are deployed using automation, cognitive and other digital technologies to greatly enhance the value and quality of service given to our clients.  Our digital service offerings expanded in 2017 to include RPA strategy, feasibility assessments, and implementation services.
 Expand Emerging Services.  The focus will be on creating repeatable methods used to drive growth of emerging services including RPA, Engineering Services and Service Providers as a Business.
 1.RPA Services:   With the acquisition of Alsbridge, ISG’s capabilities and service offerings now include implementation services for RPA.  The RPA market size is expected to grow significantly over the next few years.  RPA is fundamentally reshaping the world of Information Technology Outsourcing (“ITO”) and Business Process Outsourcing (“BPO”). Increasingly mature RPA solutions are enabling automated 24/7/365 execution of business processes at a fraction of the cost of human equivalents, as well as the potential to dramatically reengineer and improve key business processes. We help customers and service providers navigate the myriad risks and seize the significant transformational opportunities offered by robotics and automation.  Our solutions will work to optimize repetitive processes using ‘bots’ instead of human labor.  RPA services will continue to be marketed by industry (e.g. claims processing for insurance) and by back office functions (e.g. accounting).
 2.Engineering Services:  We will continue to advance our position, bringing together solutions that leverage digital advancements for engineering services. Our digitally focused engineering services of the future will allow our clients to rapidly harness the power of Internet of Things (“IoT”), enabling the digitization of products, platforms and processes.
 3.HR Technology & Delivery Services: Advances in technology are transforming the business of HR. From intuitive and mobile self-service software to predictive analytics and integrated talent management suites, technological solutions are changing the way leaders acquire, develop and engage their employees. New applications, enhanced functionality and competition among software providers make it difficult to stay on top of this ever-evolving space. ISG provides deep subject matter expertise, market data and financial frameworks to help organizations develop and execute HR technology strategies that are right for them

 
  10

 

 4.Providers as a Business (“PaaB”):  Historically, ISG had targeted traditional service providers for these types of services which included a combination of consulting and research solutions.  These services include market intelligence, client retention programs, pursuit effectiveness, satisfaction benchmarking, go-to-market consulting and health checks. The Alsbridge acquisition brought additional capabilities which include provider benchmarking.
 Expand “Recurring Revenue Streams.”  This includes Managed Services, Research, software as a subscription, benchmarking as a subscription and the U.S. Public Sector. All are characterized by subscriptions (i.e., renewal‑centric as opposed to project centric revenue streams) or multi‑year contracts.  As companies begin to recognize the importance of managing the post‑sourcing‑transaction period, managed services has emerged as a revenue driver for us where our offerings are delivered through multi‑year managed services contracts. We believe that our experience with outsourcing transactions and software implementation initiatives make us uniquely equipped to provide research insights and direct support to help our clients manage their transformational projects or act as a third‑party administrator.  We will continue to pursue opportunities to leverage our experience to make research and managed services an even greater revenue generator for us. The U.S. public sector, particularly state governments, local municipalities, and higher education—presents a significant opportunity to ISG. Systems are typically outdated, maintenance is expensive, and the workforce charged with maintenance is ageing. There is a need to refurbish systems to reduce the cost of operations (particularly because governments’ tax revenues are under pressure). We are well-positioned as a third party, objective advisory group with no affiliation to the software providers.  ISG will continue to invest in the digitization of these services, driving up automation, greater profitability and even more value for our clients. 
 Consider Acquisition and Other Growth Opportunities.  The business services, information and advisory market is highly fragmented.  We believe we are well‑positioned to leverage our leading market positions and strong brand recognition to expand through acquisitions. Acquiring firms with complementary services and products allows us to further develop and broaden our service offerings and domain expertise.  We will consider and may pursue opportunities to enter into joint ventures and to buy or combine with other businesses.
 Retool Our Resource and Delivery Model.  The goal is to evolve our workforce to achieve a more efficient distribution of resources globally and a more flexible staffing model. This will provide ISG’s clients with better value for their money while also improving ISG’s margins.
 Our Proprietary Data Assets and Market Intelligence
 One of our core assets is the information, data, analytics, methodologies and other intellectual property the Company possesses. This intellectual property underpins the independent nature of our operational assessments, strategy development, deal‑structuring, negotiation and other consulting services we provide to our clients.
 With each engagement we conduct, we enhance both the quantity and quality of the intellectual property we employ on behalf of our clients, thus providing a continuous, evolving and unique source of information, data and analytics.

 
  11

 

 This intellectual property is proprietary and we rely on multiple legal and contractual provisions and devices to protect our intellectual property rights.  We recognize the value of our intellectual property and vigorously defend it.  As a result, the Company maintains strict policies and procedures regarding ownership, use and protection with all parties, including our employees.
 Clients
 We operate in over 20 countries and across numerous industries. Our private sector clients operate in the financial services, telecommunications, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, transportation and travel and energy and utilities industries.  Our private sector clients are primarily large businesses ranked in the Forbes Global 2000 companies annually. Our public sector clients are primarily state and local governments (cities and counties) and authorities (airport and transit) in the United States and national and provincial government units in the United Kingdom, Italy and Australia. Competition
 Competition in the sourcing, data, information and advisory market is primarily driven by independence and objectivity, expertise, possession of relevant benchmarking data, breadth of service capabilities, reputation and price. We compete with other sourcing advisors, research firms, strategy consultants and sourcing service providers. A significant number of independent sourcing and advisory firms offer similar services. In our view, however, these firms generally lack the benchmarking data, scale and diversity of expertise that we possess. In addition, most research firms do not possess the data repository of recent, comparable transactions and benchmarking data. Management consultants bring strategic service capabilities to the sourcing and advisory market. However, they generally lack the depth of experience that sourcing, data and advisory firms such as ISG possess. In addition, management consultants do not possess the sourcing and technology implementation expertise nor the benchmarking data capabilities that are critical to implementing and managing successful transformational projects for businesses and governments. Other service providers often lack the depth of experience, competitive benchmarking data and independence critical to playing the role of “trusted advisor” to clients. Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we employed 1,248 people worldwide.
 Our employee base includes executive management, service leads, partners, directors, advisors, analysts, technical specialists and functional support staff.
 We recruit advisors from service providers and consulting firms with direct operational experience. These advisors leverage extensive practical expertise derived from experiences in corporate leadership, consulting, research, financial analysis, contract negotiations and operational service delivery.
 All employees are required to execute confidentiality, conflict of interest and intellectual property agreements as a condition of employment. There are no collective bargaining agreements covering any of our employees.
 Our voluntary advisor turnover rate has ranged between 8% and 17% over the last three years.

 
  12

 

 Available Information
 Our Internet address is www.isg‑one.com. The content on our website is available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10‑K or any other filings. We make available through our Internet website under the heading “Investor Relations,” our annual report on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, and current reports on Form 8‑K after we electronically file any such materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for Directors, Officers and Employees, Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for our Audit Committee, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Compensation Committee are also on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents including our Annual Report to Stockholders by writing to Information Services Group, Inc., Two Stamford Plaza, 281 Tresser Boulevard, Stamford CT 06901, Attention: David E. Berger, or by calling (203) 517‑3100.
 Our annual and quarterly reports and other information statements are also available to the public through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Proxy Statement and 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders are available free of charge at www.proxyvote.com.
