Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
Overview
 
We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focused on developing novel, proprietary therapeutics and delivery methods for the treatment of breast cancer and other breast conditions. We are developing Endoxifen with two routes of delivery: a topical formulation, applied like a lotion, for the treatment of a condition called mammographic breast density (or, MBD); and an oral formulation for breast cancer survivors who do not benefit from taking oral tamoxifen, a current FDA-approved standard of care. We are also developing our patented intraductal microcatheter technology to potentially target the delivery of therapies, including fulvestrant, immunotherapies and Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cell therapies (CAR-T therapies), directly to the site of breast cancer.


In 2017, we completed a Phase 1 clinical study of our proprietary oral and topical formulations of Endoxifen. All objectives were met: there were no clinically significant safety signals and no clinically significant adverse events, and both the oral and topical Endoxifen were well tolerated. In the topical arm of the study, low but measurable Endoxifen levels were detected in the blood in a dose-dependent fashion. In the oral arm of the study, participants exhibited dose-dependent Endoxifen levels that met or exceeded the published therapeutic level. The median time for patients in the study to reach the steady-state serum levels of Endoxifen while taking daily doses of oral Endoxifen was 7 days. Published literature indicates that it takes approximately 50-200 days for patients to reach steady-state Endoxifen levels when taking daily doses of oral tamoxifen.

We are currently conducting a Phase 2 study at Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York, using our intraductal microcatheter technology to deliver fulvestrant. Our program to use our intraductal microcatheters to deliver CAR-T and other immunotherapies is in the research and development phase.
 
We plan to open enrollment in two Phase 2 studies of our proprietary Endoxifen in the first half of 2018: a study in Stockholm, Sweden using our topical Endoxifen to treat MBD and a study of our oral Endoxifen in Australia to treat patients who do not benefit from taking tamoxifen. We expect to complete these studies in the second half of 2018.


Our key objectives are to advance our programs through Phase 2 trials and then evaluate further development independently or with partners.
 
Our common stock is currently quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ATOS.”
 
Our Programs Under Development
 
Endoxifen
 
Oral tamoxifen has been widely used for over 30 years to both treat and prevent breast cancer. Tamoxifen, however, has significant drawbacks: First, it can cause side effects including headaches, nausea and early menopausal symptoms as well as rare but serious side effects such as cataracts, stokes and cancer of the uterus. Second, tamoxifen is a “pro-drug,” meaning that it must be processed by the liver in order to produce therapeutic metabolites. The metabolite in tamoxifen that accounts for most of its therapeutic activity is called Endoxifen. Unfortunately, up to 50% of breast cancer survivors who are taking tamoxifen do not produce therapeutic levels of Endoxifen (meaning they are “refractory”) for a number of reasons including that they, due to their genotype, do not have the requisite liver enzymes. Additionally, it can take from 50-200 days for tamoxifen to reach “steady-state” meaning that the drug may be providing little or no benefit for up to several months after starting treatment. We are developing Endoxifen to address the shortcomings of tamoxifen.
 
We are developing two different presentations of proprietary Endoxifen for two different potential treatment settings: First, we are developing topical Endoxifen for women with MBD for transdermal or “topical” administration. Legislation that has been recently enacted in approximately 30 states requires that women be notified if they have MBD and those notifications typically state that women with MBD have a higher risk of developing breast cancer, and that mammography may not be as effective in detecting breast cancer because the MBD can “mask” the detection of cancers. We estimate that approximately ten million women in the Unites States have MBD, for which there is no FDA-approved treatment. Although oral tamoxifen is approved to prevent breast cancer in “high-risk” women, it is used by less than 5% of women with an increased risk of developing breast cancer because of the actual or perceived side effects and risks of tamoxifen. We believe our topical Endoxifen may provide an effective treatment for MBD because, unlike an oral medication, it is applied directly to the breast and penetrates the skin; it does not require metabolism by the liver; and it may produce fewer side effects than tamoxifen. Moreover, our topical Endoxifen may improve mammography accuracy and patient care by unmasking cancerous tumors that are otherwise hidden by breast density. In two separate reports of film-screen mammography, mammographic sensitivity decreased from a level of 85.7%–88.8% in patients with almost entirely fatty tissue to 62.2%–68.1% in patients with extremely dense breast tissue.
 
Second, we are developing oral Endoxifen for breast cancer patients who are refractory to tamoxifen. Approximately one million breast cancer patients take tamoxifen to prevent recurrent and new breast cancer; however, up to 50% of those patients are refractory to tamoxifen. We believe our oral Endoxifen may provide an effective treatment supplement or option for these refractory patients because Endoxifen, unlike tamoxifen, does not require liver metabolism.
 

5
-

 

We recently completed a comprehensive Phase 1 study in 48 healthy women in Australia using both the topical and oral forms of our proprietary Endoxifen. The objectives of this double-blinded, placebo-controlled, Phase 1 study were to assess the pharmacokinetics of our proprietary Endoxifen dosage forms as single (oral) and repeat (oral and topical) doses, as well as to assess safety and tolerability. The study was conducted in two parts based on route of administration.
 
In September 2017, we reported preliminary results for the topical arm of the study and in October 2017 we reported preliminary results for the oral arm of the study. We concluded that all objectives were successfully met in both arms of the study: there were no clinically significant safety signals and no clinically significant adverse events and both the oral and topical Endoxifen were well tolerated. In the topical arm of the study, there were low but measurable Endoxifen levels detected in the blood in a dose-dependent fashion and in the oral arm of the study participants exhibited dose-dependent Endoxifen levels in published reports of the therapeutic range. The median time for patients in the study to reach the steady-state serum levels of Endoxifen while taking daily doses of oral Endoxifen was 7 days. Published literature indicates that it takes approximately 50-200 days for patients to reach steady-state Endoxifen levels when taking daily doses of oral tamoxifen. Finally, the median time for patients in the study to reach the maximum serum level of Endoxifen after taking Atossa’s oral Endoxifen ranged from 4 to 8 hours (depending on dose). The 4 mg dose of Endoxifen produced a maximum serum level of Endoxifen in 4 to 8 hours at levels above the generally accepted threshold for a therapeutic effect on estrogen-dependent breast cancer.


In September 2017, we contracted Stockholm South General Hospital in Sweden to conduct a Phase 2 study of our topical Endoxifen. The study will be led by principal investigator Dr. Per Hall, MD, Ph.D., Head of the Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics at Karolinska Institutet. We have applied for approval from the Institutional Review Board and Swedish regulatory authority (Medical Products Agency) to begin enrollment. The primary endpoint is MBD reduction, as well as safety and tolerability. We are planning to open this study in the first half of 2018 and to complete it in the second half of 2018.


We plan to commence a Phase 2 clinical study in Australia using our oral Endoxifen for patients who are refractory to tamoxifen. We have retained a clinical research organization to manage the study and we plan to open the study in the first half of 2018 and to complete it in the second half of 2018.


Proprietary Intraductal Microcatheter Technology
 
We believe our patented intraductal microcatheters may be useful in delivering CAR-T, immunotherapies and a number of drugs to the ducts in the breast, the site of the majority of early breast cancers. Doing so is intended to provide a therapeutic directly to the breast tissue while at the same time reducing delivery of the drug to healthy tissue. We must obtain FDA approval of any therapy delivered via our intraductal microcatheters devices, which will require expensive and time-consuming studies in the current regulatory framework. For example, we must complete clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and tolerability of fulvestrant using our delivery method. We may not be successful in completing these studies or obtaining approval from the FDA or other applicable foreign regulatory authority.
 
Breast cancers and precancerous lesions are typically treated with systemically administered agents such as tamoxifen, Faslodex, Perjeta and Herceptin. However, these therapies can cause serious side effects which may lead to poor patient compliance with the treatment regimens. Providing therapies directly into the breast ducts targeting the site of the localized cancerous lesions could reduce the need for systemic anti-cancer therapies, and potentially reduce or eliminate the systemic side effects of the therapies and morbidity in such patients, and ultimately improve patient compliance and ultimately reduce mortality.
 
TRAP CAR-T
 
Much of the recent success in the field of chimeric antigen receptor therapy, or CAR-T, has relied on the systemic delivery (for example a needle injection into the blood stream) of the CAR-T which is intended to treat various non-solid tumor cancers, such as blood cancers. One concern with this systemic approach is that it does not target the location of the cancer and it can have adverse affects, including deadly “cytokine storms.” Moreover, CAR-T treatments delivered systemically can be as high as $500,000 per patient.

6
-

 

We are developing a novel method to deliver CAR-T cells into the ducts of the breast for the potential targeted treatment of breast cancer. This approach uses our proprietary intraductal microcatheter technology for the potential transpapillary, or “TRAP,” delivery of either T-cells that have been genetically modified to attack breast cancer cells or various immune-therapies. We believe this method has several potential advantages including the reduction of toxicity by limiting systemic exposure of the T-cells or immunotherapy; improved efficacy by placing the T-cells or immunotherapy in direct contact with the target ductal epithelial cells that are undergoing malignant transformation; and, lymphatic migration of the CAR-T cells or immunotherapy potentially extending their cytotoxic actions into the regional lymph system, which could limit tumor cell dissemination. Moreover, our proprietary approach may be more cost effective if lower doses of therapy can be delivered compared to systemic CAR-T. Our approach is in the R&D stage and is currently not FDA approved. In 2018 we intend to commence studies that will help demonstrate safety and efficacy of this novel approach. 
 
The TRAP delivery of therapeutics in breast cancer clinical trials have demonstrated “that cytotoxic drugs can be safely administered into breast ducts with minimal toxicity” (Zhang B, et al. Chin J Cancer Res. 2014 Oct;26(5):579-87; www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25400424). T cells are removed from a patient and modified so that they express receptors specific to the patient's particular breast cancer. The T cells, which can then recognize and kill the cancer cells, are reintroduced into the patient using a microcatheter into the natural ducts of the breast. Chimeric antigen receptors (or, “CARs” and also known as chimeric immunoreceptors, chimeric T cell receptors, artificial T cell receptors or CAR-T) are engineered receptors, which graft an arbitrary specificity onto an immune effector cell (“T cell”). Typically, these receptors are used to graft the specificity of a monoclonal antibody onto a T cell, with transfer of their coding sequence facilitated by retroviral vectors. The receptors are called chimeric because they are composed of parts from different sources.
 
We have developed a foundational intellectual property position with respect to TRAP CAR-T, and we intend to continue research and development through partnership with leading investigators, institutions, and organizations around the world, bringing our technology and expertise in TRAP delivery together with experts in cancer immunology and T-cell biology.
 
Delivery of Drugs via our Microcatheters
 
The initial drug we are studying using our microcatheters for intraductal delivery is fulvestrant. Fulvestrant is FDA-approved for metastatic breast cancer. It is administered as a monthly injection of two shots, typically into the buttocks. In 2012 a published study documented that the single dose cost of intramuscular fulvestrant was approximately $12,000.
 
We own several pending patent applications directed to the treatment of breast conditions, including cancer, by the intraductal administration of therapeutics including fulvestrant, and one issued patent directed to intraductal treatment of breast conditions following a diagnosis of breast conditions using ductal fluid.
 
We do not yet have the FDA’s input, but based on our preliminary analysis, subject to FDA feedback, we believe that the intraductal fulvestrant program could qualify for designation under the 505(b)(2) status. This would allow us to file with only clinical data and without having to perform additional, significant clinical or pre-clinical studies. So the path to market is potentially both faster and less expensive than a standard new drug application, or NDA, program.
 
We are currently conducting a Phase 2 study using our microcatheter technology to deliver fulvestrant at Montefiore Medical Center. This trial is a Phase 2 study in women with ductal carcinoma in situ (“DCIS”) or Stage 1 or 2 breast cancer (invasive ductal carcinoma) scheduled for mastectomy or lumpectomy within 30 to 45 days. This study is assessing the safety, tolerability, cellular activity and distribution of fulvestrant when delivered directly into breast milk ducts of these patients compared to those who receive the same drug by injection. Of the 30 patients required for full enrollment, six will receive the standard intramuscular injection of fulvestrant and 24 will receive fulvestrant with our microcatheter device. 
 

7
-

 

The primary endpoint of the clinical trial is to compare the safety, tolerability and distribution of fulvestrant between the two routes of administration (intramuscular injection or through our microcatheters). The secondary endpoint of the study is to determine if there are changes in the expression of Ki67 (a measure of cellular proliferation that correlates with tumor growth) as well as estrogen and progesterone receptors between a pre-fulvestrant biopsy and post-fulvestrant surgical specimens. Digital breast imaging before and after drug administration in both groups will also be performed to determine the effect of fulvestrant on any lesions as well as breast density of the participant.
 
Other Studies of Intraductal Administration using our Microcatheters
 
An October 2011 peer-reviewed paper published in Science Translational Medicine reported the results of a study conducted at the Johns Hopkins Medical School demonstrating the prevention of breast cancer in rats with intraductal non-systemic chemotherapy, and a proof-of-principle Phase 1 clinical trial involving 17 women with breast cancer who subsequently received surgery. An accompanying editorial commented that “intraductal treatment could be especially useful for women with premalignant lesions or those at high risk of developing breast cancer, thus drastically improving upon their other, less attractive options of breast-removal surgery or surveillance (termed ‘watch and wait’).” 
 
In a December 2012 peer-reviewed paper published in Cancer Prevention Research, Dr. Susan Love and her colleagues reported the results of a Phase I clinical trial of intraductal chemotherapy drugs administered into multiple ducts within one breast in women awaiting mastectomy for treatment of invasive cancer. Thirty subjects were enrolled in this dose escalation study conducted at a single center in Beijing, China. Under local anesthetic, one of two chemotherapy drugs, carboplatin or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD), was administered into five to eight ducts at three dose levels. Pharmacokinetic analysis has shown that carboplatin was rapidly absorbed into the bloodstream, whereas PLD, though more erratic, was absorbed after a delay. Pathologic analysis showed marked effects on breast duct epithelium in ducts treated with either drug compared with untreated ducts. The investigators concluded the study showed the safety and feasibility of intraductal administration of chemotherapy drugs into multiple ducts for the purpose of breast cancer prevention and that this was an important step towards implementing of this strategy as a "chemical mastectomy," potentially eliminating the need for surgery.
 
Markets
 
Potential Market Opportunities
 
We believe that, based in part on a January 2017 study by Defined Health, a leading market research firm, the potential U.S. market for intraductal administration of fulvestrant or similar drugs in DCIS patients is up to $800 million annually. This estimate includes treatment of DCIS patients prior to surgery as well as patients who would use intraductal treatment as an alternative to surgery. We believe that the potential U.S. market for endoxifen in the treatment and prevention settings is up to $1 billion annually.
The Breast Cancer and Related Markets
 
The American Cancer Society (“ACS”) estimates that in 2017, 250,000 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer in the United States. Every two minutes an American woman is diagnosed with breast cancer and 40,000 die each year. Although about 100 times less common than in women, breast cancer also affects men. The ACS estimates that the lifetime risk of men getting breast cancer is about 1 in 1,000; 2,470 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed; and 460 men will die from breast cancer in 2017.
 
We were incorporated in April of 2009 and our common stock is currently quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ATOS.”



8
-

Historical Operations
 
Afimoxifene Topical Gel (AfTG)
 
On May 14, 2015, we were granted the worldwide exclusive rights to develop and commercialize AfTG for the potential treatment and prevention of hyperplasia of the breast pursuant to an Intellectual Property License Agreement with Besins Healthcare Luxembourg SARL. The active pharmaceutical ingredient in AfTG is Afimoxifene (4-hydroxytamoxifen), which is an active metabolite of tamoxifen. 
 
On January 28, 2016, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Atossa Genetics Inc. v. Besins Healthcare Luxembourg SARL Case No. 1:16-cv-00045-UNA (the “Besins Litigation”). The complaint asserts claims for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and for declaratory relief against Besins.  On March 7, 2016, Besins responded to our complaint by denying our claims and asserting counterclaims against us for breach of contract, fraud, and negligent misrepresentation and declaratory relief. We filed our answer to Besins’ counterclaims on March 31, 2016, in which the Company disputed Besins’ allegations and denied that Besins is entitled to relief on its counterclaims. On August 4, 2016, we and Besins agreed, pursuant to a Termination Agreement, to terminate the License Agreement, dismiss the Besins Litigation, and settle all claims and counterclaims asserted in the Besins Litigation.  We and Besins have further agreed, pursuant to and as set forth in the Termination Agreement, that Besins will assume, and we shall have no further rights to, all clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, and all other development and commercialization of 4-hydroxy tamoxifen and Afimoxifene Topical Gel (the “AfTG Program”). In consideration for our comprehensive relinquishment of all rights granted in the License Agreement, termination of the License Agreement, cessation of all efforts to develop Afimoxifene Topical Gel, delivery of all API manufactured to date, assignment of a Drug Master File, delivery to Besins of the work product we have completed to date, and other consideration, Besins reimbursed us for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by us to pursue the AfTG Program and made a termination payment to us in August 2016 in the total amount of $1,762,931.
 
Our Medical Devices 
 
The use of our patented intraductal microcatheter devices is being developed for the targeted delivery of potential drugs, CAR-T and immunotherapies, as described above.
 
Our medical devices also include the ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator and the FullCYTE Breast Aspirator, which collect specimens of nipple aspirate fluid (NAF) for cytological testing at a laboratory, and a universal transport kit to assist with the packaging and transport of NAF samples to a laboratory. We also own the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell various medical devices (although we do not currently maintain an inventory of our devices) consisting primarily of tools to assist breast surgeons, which we acquired from Acueity Healthcare in 2012. We are not currently commercializing our breast aspirator devices, transportation kits, tools for breast surgeons and NAF cytology tests.
Our Capital Resources
 
We have not yet established an ongoing source of revenue sufficient to cover our operating costs and allow us to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on obtaining adequate capital to fund operating losses until we become profitable. We plan to obtain additional capital resources by selling our equity securities and borrowing from stockholders or others when needed. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in accomplishing any of these plans and, if we are unable to obtain adequate capital, we could be forced to cease operations. We do not anticipate any revenue until our pharmaceutical programs are developed, including receiving all necessary regulatory approvals, and until we successfully commercialize these programs.

9
-

 

As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $7,217,469. Our capital raising activity in 2016 and 2017 consisted of the following (all amounts have been adjusted to reflect the 1:15 reverse stock split we effectuated on August 26, 2016):
  
2016 Financing Activities
 
During the first quarter of 2016, we sold 405,747 shares of common stock to Aspire Capital pursuant to an arrangement that we had entered into with them in November 2015 for aggregate gross proceeds of $2.2 million, or net proceeds of $2.1 million after deducting costs of the offering.
 
We terminated the November 2015 purchase agreement with Aspire Capital and on May 25, 2016, we entered into a new common stock purchase agreement with Aspire Capital which provides that we may sell up to $10 million in common stock to Aspire Capital over the 30 month term of the agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set out in the stock purchase agreement, none of which have been sold as of the date of filing this Annual Report.  The May 25, 2016 agreement provides that on any trading day on which the closing sale price of our common stock exceeds $1.50, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to present Aspire Capital with a purchase notice, directing Aspire Capital (as principal) to purchase up to 10,000 shares of our common stock per trading day, provided that the aggregate price of such purchase shall not exceed $500,000 per trading day, up to $10 million of our common stock in the aggregate at a per share price calculated by reference to the prevailing market price of our common stock.


In addition, on any date on which we submit a purchase notice for 10,000 shares to Aspire Capital and the closing sale price of our stock is equal to or greater than $3.75 per share of common stock, we also have the right, in our sole discretion, to present Aspire Capital with a volume-weighted average price purchase notice (each, a “VWAP Purchase Notice”) directing Aspire Capital to purchase an amount of stock equal to up to 30% of the aggregate shares of our common stock traded on the NASDAQ on the next trading day (the “VWAP Purchase Date”), subject to a maximum number of shares we may determine (the “VWAP Purchase Share Volume Maximum”) and a minimum trading price (the “VWAP Minimum Price Threshold”). The purchase price per share pursuant to such VWAP Purchase Notice (the “VWAP Purchase Price”) is calculated by reference to the prevailing market price of our common stock.



10
--

 

The purchase agreement provides that we and Aspire Capital shall not affect any sales under the purchase agreement on any purchase date where the closing sale price of our common stock is less than $1.50 per share (the “Floor Price”). This Floor Price and the respective prices and share numbers in the preceding paragraphs shall be appropriately adjusted for any reorganization, recapitalization, non-cash dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or other similar transaction. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the purchase agreement, and we will control the timing and amount of any sales of our common stock to Aspire Capital. Aspire Capital has no right to require any sales by us, but is obligated to make purchases from us as we direct in accordance with the purchase agreement. There are no limitations on use of proceeds, financial or business covenants, or restrictions on future financings, rights of first refusal, participation rights, penalties or liquidated damages in the purchase agreement. Aspire Capital may not assign its rights or obligations under the purchase agreement. The purchase agreement may be terminated by us at any time, at our discretion, without any penalty or cost to us.


The issuance of the all shares to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement is exempt from registration under the Securities Act, pursuant to the exemption for transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated thereunder.
 
In August 2016, we completed an underwritten public offering of 1,150,000 shares of common stock at a price per share of $2.50, with gross proceeds to us of $2.9 million, or proceeds of $2.6 million after deducting underwriter discounts, commissions, non-accountable expense allowances and expense reimbursements.


2017 Financing Activities
 
On April 3, 2017, we closed an underwritten public offering that generated gross proceeds to us of approximately $4.4 million and net proceeds of approximately $3.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses paid by the Company.
 
The offering included 664,000 Class A Units at a public offering price of $0.75 per Class A Unit, which consisted of 664,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 664,000 shares of common stock. The offering also included 3,502 Class B Units at a public offering price of $1,000 per Class B Unit, which consisted of 3,502 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock convertible into a total of 4,669,329 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 4,669,329 shares of common stock. In addition, the underwriter exercised the over-allotment to purchase an additional 530,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 530,000 shares of common stock, which are included in the gross proceeds of $4.4 million. The warrants had a per share exercise price of $0.9375, were exercisable immediately and were scheduled to expire five years from the date of issuance.
 

11
--

 

On October 30, 2017, we closed a public offering which generated gross proceeds to us of approximately $5.5 million and net proceeds of $4.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and other offering expenses paid by the company.
 
The offering included 11,500,000 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $0.44 per share. In addition, the underwriter exercised the over-allotment to purchase an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock at the offering price of $0.44 per share, which are included in the gross proceeds of $5.5 million.
 
On December 20, 2017, we entered into a securities purchase agreement, which closed on December 22, 2017, with certain purchasers named therein relating to the offering and sale of 5,300,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $0.27 per share. The offering generated gross proceeds to the Company of approximately $1.4 million and net proceeds of $1.2 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions, and other offering expenses paid by the company.
 
Concurrently with the December 22, 2017 public offering we also commenced a private placement in which we issued and sold Class A and Class B Warrants, exercisable for an aggregate of 10,600,000 shares of common stock, at an exercise price of $0.315 per share. The public offering and the private placement involve the same purchasers. The Class A and Class B Warrants exercise price is fixed at $0.315 per warrant, and will become exercisable commencing six months from issuance. The Class A Warrants will expire eight months from issuance, while the Class B Warrants will expire on the first anniversary of the date of issuance. Other than the different expiration dates, the Class A Warrants and Class B Warrants have identical terms. None of the Class A Warrants, the Class B Warrants nor the shares issuable upon exercise of such Warrants have been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, although we plan to register the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants prior to the dates on which they become exercisable.


Research and Development
 
Our pharmaceutical programs and delivery methods using intraductal microcatheter are in the research and development phase. Research and development costs are generally expensed as incurred. Our research and development expenses include, for example, manufacturing expenses for our drugs under development, expenses associated with clinical studies and associated salaries and benefits. Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $2,328,087 and $770,472, respectively.
Intellectual Property
 
As of February 28, 2018, and based on a recent periodic review of our patent estate, we own 13 issued patents (11 US and 2 international) and 24 pending patent applications (9 in the United States, and 15 international applications) directed to our programs on Endoxifen, Fulvestrant, CAR-T therapeutics and intraductal delivery using devices such as microcatheters. The foregoing patent counts exclude certain patents and applications with short patent terms remaining on them and those covering our ForeCyte, FullCyte and Acueity devices and various tests that are no longer core to our business. The patent counts disclosed herein and in our patent estate are subject to change.

12
--

 

Atossa and Atossa Genetics (stylized) are our registered trademarks.
 
Manufacturing, Clinical Studies and Associated Operations
 
Our drug development strategy utilizes third party contractors for the procurement and manufacture, as applicable, of raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished drug products, as well as for storage, and distribution of our products and associated supply chain operations. We also plan to rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical and clinical studies of our drugs and microcatheter technology under development. As our development pipeline continues to expand, we expect that our manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical studies, and related operational requirements will correspondingly increase. Each third-party contractor undergoes a formal qualification process by Atossa subject matter experts prior to signing any service agreement and initiating any third-party work.
 
Integral to our development strategy is our quality program, which includes standard operating procedures and specifications with the goal that our work complies with Good Clinical (GCP), Good Laboratory (GLP) and Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), and other applicable global regulations. We expect and confirm that selected service providers meet or exceed our expectations for compliance with these standards in providing services and products that meet our requirements.
 
We believe our operational strategy of utilizing qualified contractors and suppliers in the foregoing manner allows us to direct our financial and managerial resources to development and commercialization activities, rather than to the establishment and maintenance of a manufacturing and clinical infrastructure.
 
Government Regulation
 
Drug Regulations
 
We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and its implementing regulations set forth, among other things, regulations for the execution of clinical studies, and the requirements for the testing, development, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, distribution, import, export, advertising and promotion of our products. Our activities in other countries will be subject to regulation that is similar in nature and scope as that imposed in the U.S., although there can be important differences. Additionally, some significant aspects of regulation in the E.U. are addressed in a centralized way through the EMA and the European Commission, but country-specific regulation by the competent authorities of the E.U. member states remains essential in many respects.
 
U.S. Regulations
 
In the U.S., the FDA regulates drugs under the FDCA and its implementing regulations, through review and ultimately approval of NDAs. NDAs require extensive studies and submission of a large amount of data by the applicant, which is an amalgamation of data obtained under INDs and other supporting available information.
 
Drug Development
 
Preclinical Testing: Before testing any compound in human subjects in the U.S., a company must generate extensive preclinical data. Preclinical testing generally includes laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological studies in several animal species to assess the quality and safety of the product. Animal studies must be performed in compliance with the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Act.
 
IND Application: In most cases, human clinical trials in the U.S. cannot commence until an IND is submitted to the FDA for review and a “Safe to Proceed” letter has been provided to the sponsor. The sponsor must prepare a dossier of information that includes the results of preclinical studies; detailed drug manufacturing information and results; and proposed clinical studies, design and development strategy. The FDA then evaluates if there is an adequate basis for testing the drug in an initial (human) clinical study. Unless the FDA raises concerns, the IND application becomes effective 30 days following its receipt by the FDA at which time written notification is provided. Once human clinical trials have commenced, the sponsor is obligated to report serious side effects to the FDA. The FDA may suspend a clinical trial by placing it on “clinical hold” if the FDA has concerns about the safety of the product being tested, subject risks, investigator actions, related product information or for other reasons.
 

13
--

Clinical Trials: Clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy human volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of a qualified investigator according to vetted and approved protocol.
 
The conduct of clinical trials is subject to extensive regulation, including compliance with the FDA’s bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, requirements, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from and reporting the results of, clinical trials, and are intended to assure that the data and reported results are credible and accurate, and that the rights, safety, and well-being of study participants are protected. Clinical trials must be conducted under written and approved protocols that detail the study objectives, parameters for monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria, if any, to be evaluated. Each protocol is reviewed by the FDA as part of the IND application. In addition, each clinical trial must be reviewed, approved, and conducted under the auspices of an institutional review board, or IRB, at the institution conducting the clinical trial. Companies sponsoring the clinical trials, investigators, and IRBs also must comply with regulations and guidelines for obtaining informed consent from the study subjects, complying with the protocol and investigational plan, adequately monitoring the clinical trial and timely reporting adverse events. Foreign studies conducted under an IND application must meet the same requirements that apply to studies being conducted in the U.S. Data from a foreign study not conducted under an IND application may be submitted in support of an NDA if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP and the FDA is able to validate the data.
 
A study sponsor is required to submit certain details about active clinical trials and clinical trial results to the National Institutes of Health for public posting on http://clinicaltrials.gov. Human clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap with one another:
 

● | Phase 1 clinical trials include the initial administration of the investigational drug to humans, typically to a small group of healthy human subjects, but occasionally to a group of patients with the targeted disease or disorder. Phase 1 clinical trials generally are intended to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the drug, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence of effectiveness.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Phase 2 clinical trials generally are controlled studies that involve a relatively small sample of the intended patient population, and are designed to develop data regarding the product’s effectiveness, to determine dose response and the optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted after preliminary evidence of effectiveness has been obtained, and are intended to gather the additional information about safety and effectiveness necessary to evaluate the drug’s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for physician labeling. Generally, Phase 3 clinical development programs consist of expanded, large-scale studies of patients with the target disease or disorder to obtain statistical evidence of the efficacy and safety of the drug, or the safety, purity, and potency of a biological product, at the proposed dosing regimen.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The sponsoring company, the FDA or the IRB may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Further, success in early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be subject to alternative interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.
 
There are regulatory pathways that can accelerate the speed with which a product can be developed, including a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA), Break-through therapy designation, etc. The designations are obtained from the FDA on a case-by-case basis and do not guarantee the ultimate approval of a product for commercialization.
 

14
--

Drug Approval
 
Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and of the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the investigational product, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. Submission of an NDA requires payment of a substantial review user fee to the FDA. The FDA will review the application and may deem it to be inadequate to support commercial marketing, and there can be no assurance that any product approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may also seek the advice of an advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians practicing in the field for which the product is intended, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of the advisory committee.
 
The FDA has various programs, including breakthrough therapy, fast track, priority review and accelerated approval that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for one or more of these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs and those that provide meaningful benefit over existing treatments. We cannot be sure that any of our drugs will qualify for any of these programs, or that, if a drug does qualify, the review time will be reduced or the product will be approved.
 
Before approving an NDA, the FDA usually inspects the clinical sites with the greatest accrual to confirm the veracity of the clinical data, execution of the clinical study and protection of patient safety. The FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities where the product is manufactured, tested and distributed. Approval is not granted if these inspections raise concerns about the execution of the clinical studies or there is a lack of cGMP compliance. If the FDA evaluates the NDA and determines the clinical trial execution and manufacturing facilities as acceptable, the FDA may issue an approval letter. If the NDA is not approved, the FDA issues a complete response letter which is only issued for applications that are not approved. The approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug for specific indications. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy, or impose other post-approval commitment conditions.
 
In some circumstances, post-marketing testing may include post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, which are used primarily to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended population, particularly for long-term safety follow-up. In addition, the FDA may require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits outweigh the risks. A REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk mitigation tools.
 
After approval, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, making certain manufacturing changes or making certain additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. Obtaining approval for a new indication generally requires that additional clinical trials be conducted.
 
Post-Approval Requirements
 
Holders of an approved NDA are required to: (i) report certain adverse reactions to the FDA; (ii) comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products; and (iii) continue to have cGMP compliance and all aspects of product manufacturing in a “state of control.” The FDA periodically inspects the sponsor’s records related to safety reporting and/or manufacturing and distribution facilities; this latter effort includes assessment of compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production, quality control and distribution to maintain cGMP compliance. Future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at manufacturing facilities that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market.
 

15
--

 

Marketing of prescription drugs is also subject to significant regulation through federal and state agencies tasked with consumer protection and prevention of medical fraud, waste and abuse. After approval in the U.S., we must comply with FDA’s regulation of drug promotion and advertising, including restrictions on off-label promotion, and we comply with federal anti-kickback statutes, limitations on gifts and payments to physicians and reporting of payments to certain third parties, among other requirements.
 
Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as clinical holds, FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplemental applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution.
 
Non-U.S. Regulation
 
Before our products can be marketed outside of the U.S., they are subject to regulatory approval similar to that required in the U.S., although the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, including additional clinical trials that may be required, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. No action can be taken to market any product in a country until an appropriate application has been approved by the regulatory authorities in that country. The current approval process varies from country to country, and the time spent in gaining approval varies from that required for FDA approval. In certain countries, the sales price of a product must also be approved. The pricing review period often begins after market approval is granted. Even if a product is approved by a regulatory authority, satisfactory prices may not be approved for such product.
 
In the E.U., marketing authorizations for medicinal products can be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process. The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain medicinal products, including orphan medicinal products, medicinal products derived from certain biotechnological processes, advanced therapy medicinal products and certain other new medicinal products containing a new active substance for the treatment of certain diseases. It is optional for certain other products, including medicinal products that are significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovations, or whose authorization would be in the interest of public or animal health. The centralized procedure allows a company to submit a single application to the EMA which will provide a positive opinion regarding the application if it meets certain quality, safety, and efficacy requirements. Based on the opinion of the EMA, the European Commission takes a final decision to grant a centralized marketing authorization which is valid in all 28 E.U. Member States and three of the four European Free Trade Association states (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). Cancer products are usually required to go through the centralized procedure.
 
Unlike the centralized authorization procedure, the decentralized marketing authorization procedure requires a separate application to, and leads to separate approval by, the competent authorities of each E.U. Member State in which the product is to be marketed. One national competent authority selected by the applicant, the Reference Member State, assesses the application for marketing authorization. Following a positive opinion by the competent authority of the Reference Member State the competent authorities of the other E.U. Member States, Concerned Member States are subsequently required to grant marketing authorization for their territory on the basis of this assessment except where grounds of potential serious risk to public health require this authorization to be refused. The mutual recognition procedure is similarly based on the acceptance by the competent authorities of the Concerned Member States of the marketing authorization of a medicinal product by the competent authorities of other Reference Member States. The holder of a national marketing authorization granted by a Reference Member State may submit an application to the competent authority of a Concerned Member State requesting that this authority mutually recognize the marketing authorization delivered by the competent authority of the Reference Member State.
 
Similar to accelerated approval regulations in the U.S., conditional marketing authorizations can be granted in the E.U. by the European Commission in exceptional circumstances. A conditional marketing authorization can be granted for medicinal products where a number of criteria are fulfilled; i) although comprehensive clinical data referring to the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product have not been supplied, the benefit/risk balance of the product is positive, ii) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data, iii) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and iv) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. A conditional marketing authorization must be renewed annually.
 

16
--

 

Even if a product receives authorization in the E.U., there can be no assurance that reimbursement for such product will be secured on a timely basis or at all. Individual countries comprising the E.U. member states, rather than the E.U., have jurisdiction across the region over patient reimbursement or pricing matters. Therefore, we will need to expend significant effort and expense to establish and maintain reimbursement arrangements in the various countries comprising the E.U. and may never succeed in obtaining widespread reimbursement arrangements therein.
 
The national authorities of the individual E.U. Member States are free to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. Some E.U. Member States adopt policies according to which a specific price or level of reimbursement is approved for the medicinal product. Other E.U. Member States adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market, including volume-based arrangements and reference pricing mechanisms.
 
Health Technology Assessment, or HTA, of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some E.U. Member States. These E.U. Member States include the U.K, France, Germany and Sweden. The HTA process, which is governed by the national laws of these countries, is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of the specific medicinal product vary between E.U. Member States.
 
Post-Approval Regulation
 
Similarly to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual E.U. Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. Failure by us or by any of our third-party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers and distributors to comply with E.U. laws and the related national laws of individual E.U. Member States governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products and marketing of such products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties. These penalties could include delays or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, withdrawal or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines and criminal penalties.
 
The holder of an E.U. marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with E.U. pharmacovigilance legislation and its related regulations and guidelines, which entail many requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. These rules can impose on central marketing authorization holders for medicinal products the obligation to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies, which may be time consuming and expensive and could impact our profitability. Non-compliance with such obligations can lead to the variation, suspension or withdrawal of the marketing authorization for the product or imposition of financial penalties or other enforcement measures.
 
The manufacturing process for medicinal products in the E.U. is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. Manufacturing requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable E.U. laws, regulations and guidance, including Directive 2001/83/EC, Directive 2003/94/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the European Commission Guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practice. These requirements include compliance with E.U. cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the E.U. with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the E.U. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the E.U. is subject to compliance with the applicable E.U. laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States.
 

17
--

 

We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to cGMP, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the EMA, the competent authorities of E.U. Member States and other regulatory authorities. The EMA reviews Periodic Safety Update Reports for medicinal products authorized in the E.U. If the EMA has concerns that the risk benefit profile of a product has varied, it can adopt an opinion advising that the existing marketing authorization for the product be suspended or varied and can advise that the marketing authorization holder be obliged to conduct post-authorization safety studies. The EMA opinion is submitted for approval by the European Commission. Failure by the marketing authorization holder to fulfill the obligations for which the approved opinion provides can undermine the on-going validity of the marketing authorization.
 
Sales and Marketing Regulations
 
In the E.U., the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to E.U. Member States’ laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual E.U. Member States may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product’s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the E.U. The applicable laws at E.U. level and in the individual E.U. Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the E.U. could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals.
 
Anti-Corruption Legislation
 
Our business activities outside of the U.S. are subject to anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct, and physicians’ codes of professional conduct or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010.
 
Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians’ codes of professional conduct developed at both E.U. level and in the individual E.U. Member States. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the E.U. Violation of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment. Payments made to physicians in certain E.U. Member States also must be publicly disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician’s employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual E.U. Member States. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.
 
Data Privacy and Protection
 
Data protection laws and regulations have been adopted at E.U. level with related implementing laws in individual E.U. Member States which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the E.U. Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the E.U. Member States, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Furthermore, there is a growth towards the public disclosure of clinical trial data in the E.U. which also adds to the complexity of processing health data from clinical trials. Such public disclosure obligations are provided in the new E.U. Clinical Trials Regulation, EMA disclosure initiatives, and voluntary commitments by industry. Data protection authorities from the different E.U. Member States may interpret the E.U. Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the E.U., and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. Apart from exceptional circumstances, the E.U. Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area that are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection including the U.S.
 
Further, the EU has recently adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single European Economic Area Privacy Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679/EU (“GDPR”), which comes into effect in May 2018. The EU data protection regime extends the scope of the EU data protection law to all foreign companies controlling, processing, and/or using data of EU residents. It imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover and €20 million and includes new rights such as the “right to be forgotten” and “portability” of personal data, with more onerous requirements related to pseudo-anonymization and anonymization of personal data. Further, the scope of “personal data” has been expanded to include genetic data, and data concerning health and adverse event reporting from clinical trials. The Company is evaluating its ability and the cost to comply with the new EU regulations. Failure to comply with these laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results.
 

18
--

United States Medical Device Regulation

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and the FDA’s implementing regulations, govern registration and listing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, and post-market surveillance. Medical devices and their manufacturers are also subject to inspection by the FDA. The FDCA, as supplemented by other federal and state laws, also provides civil and criminal penalties for violations of its provisions. We manufacture and market a medical device that is regulated by the FDA, comparable state agencies and regulatory bodies in other countries. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the degree of risk the FDA determines to be associated with a device and the extent of control deemed necessary to ensure the device’s safety and effectiveness. Devices requiring fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are deemed to pose the least risk and are subject only to general controls applicable to all devices, such as requirements for device labeling, premarket notification, and adherence to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, as reflected in its QSR. Class II devices are intermediate risk devices that are subject to general controls and may also be subject to special controls such as performance standards, product-specific guidance documents, special labeling requirements, patient registries or post-market surveillance.
 
Class III devices are those for which insufficient information exists to assure safety and effectiveness solely through general or special controls, and include life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, and devices not “substantially equivalent” to a device that is already legally marketed. Most Class I devices, and some Class II devices are exempted by regulation from the 510(k) clearance requirement and can be marketed without prior authorization from the FDA. Class I and Class II devices that have not been so exempted are eligible for marketing through the 510(k) clearance pathway. By contrast, devices placed in Class III generally require premarket approval, or PMA, prior to commercial marketing. To obtain 510(k) clearance for a medical device, an applicant must submit a premarket notification to the FDA demonstrating that the device is “substantially equivalent” to a predicate device legally marketed in the United States. A device is substantially equivalent if, with respect to the predicate device, it has the same intended use and (i) the same technological characteristics, or (ii) has different technological characteristics and the information submitted demonstrates that the device is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness. A showing of substantial equivalence sometimes, but not always, requires clinical data. Generally, the 510(k) clearance process can exceed 90 days and may extend to a year or more. After a device has received 510(k) clearance for a specific intended use, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, such as a significant change in the design, materials, method of manufacture or intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or (if the device, as modified, is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device) PMA approval. While the determination as to whether new authorization is needed is initially left to the manufacturer, the FDA may review this determination and evaluate the regulatory status of the modified product at any time and may require the manufacturer to cease marketing and recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. The manufacturer may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.
 
All clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with regulations and requirements collectively known as Good Clinical Practice, or GCP. GCPs include the FDA’s Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, regulations, which describe the conduct of clinical trials with medical devices, including the recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of sponsors and investigators, and labeling of investigation devices. They also prohibit promotion, test marketing, or commercialization of an investigational device, and any representation that such a device is safe or effective for the purposes being investigated. GCPs also include FDA’s regulations for institutional review board approval and for protection of human subjects (informed consent), as well as disclosure of financial interests by clinical investigators.
 

19
--

 

Required records and reports are subject to inspection by the FDA. The results of clinical testing may be unfavorable or, even if the intended safety and effectiveness success criteria are achieved, may not be considered sufficient for the FDA to grant approval or clearance of a product.
 
We expect that each of our devices under development will require clinical trials to support a 510(k) or PMA submission, as the case may be. For example, we expect that our intraductal microcatheters may be considered part of a “combination” product along with a drug and may require a PMA prior to commercialization.
 
The commencement or completion of clinical trials, if any, that we may sponsor, may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA application or clearance of a premarket notification for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:
 

● | the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial (or a change to a previously approved protocol or trial that requires approval), or place a clinical trial on hold;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | patients do not enroll in clinical trials or follow up at the rate expected;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | institutional review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject the Company’s trial protocol or changes to its trial protocol;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on the Company’s anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, investigator agreements, Good Clinical Practices or other FDA requirements;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | regulatory inspections of clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require the Company to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate its clinical trials;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------


● | the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or effectiveness; and
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | the FDA concludes that the Company’s trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and effectiveness.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
After a device is approved and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include:
 

● | establishment registration and device listing;
--+-----------------------------------------------


● | the Quality System Regulations (QSR), which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if malfunctions were to occur; and
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


20
--


● | corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device that may present a risk to health.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
The FDA enforces regulatory requirements by conducting periodic, announced and unannounced inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the conduct of our clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may lead to any of the following sanctions:
 

● | warning letters or untitled letters;
--+-------------------------------------


● | fines and civil penalties;
--+---------------------------


● | unanticipated expenditures;
--+----------------------------


● | delays in clearing or approving or refusal to clear or approve products;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | withdrawal or suspension of FDA clearance;
--+-------------------------------------------


● | product recall or seizure;
--+---------------------------


● | orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement, or refund;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | production interruptions;
--+--------------------------


● | operating restrictions; and
--+----------------------------


● | criminal prosecution.
--+----------------------

 
We and our contract manufacturers, specification developers and suppliers are also required to manufacture our medical devices, including our intraductal microcatheters in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements set forth in the QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes extensive requirements with respect to quality management and organization, device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device evaluation, distribution, installation, complaint handling, servicing and recordkeeping. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract manufacturers or regulated suppliers is not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut down our manufacturing operations, require recall of our devices, refuse to clear or approve new marketing applications, institute legal proceedings to detain or seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and criminal penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
Privacy and Security of Health Information and Personal Information; Standard Transactions
 
We are subject to state and federal laws and implementing regulations relating to the privacy and security of the medical information of the patients it treats. The principal federal legislation is part of HIPAA. Pursuant to HIPAA, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has issued final regulations designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions, while protecting the privacy and security of the patient information exchanged. International regulations (such as the current Directive 95/46/EC and from May 25, 2018, the GDPR) also provide privacy protection to clinical trial participants of their personal health care information. We take appropriate steps to protect the privacy of our clinical study participants. We are evaluating our ability and cost to comply with the new EU GDPR regulations, and as a result of that evaluation we may make changes to our business practices and may incur additional costs.

21
--

Federal and State Fraud and Abuse Laws
 
The federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce referrals or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under a governmental payor program. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests, opportunity to earn income, and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad, and it prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements within the healthcare industry, HHS has issued a series of regulatory “safe harbors.” These safe harbor regulations set forth certain provisions that, if met, will provide healthcare providers and other parties with an affirmative defense against prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Although full compliance with these provisions ensures against prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit within a specific safe harbor does not necessarily mean that the transaction or arrangement is illegal or that prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute will be pursued.
 
From time to time, the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, issues alerts and other guidance on certain practices in the healthcare industry. In October 1994, the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert on arrangements for the provision of clinical laboratory services. The Fraud Alert set forth a number of practices allegedly engaged in by some clinical laboratories and healthcare providers that raise issues under the “fraud and abuse” laws, including the Anti-Kickback Statute.
 

22
--

Regulation of Medical Devices Outside the United States
 
Before we can market a medical device in the European Union and the European Free Trade Association, we must comply with the Essential Requirements set forth in Annex I to the Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices, commonly known as the Medical Devices Directive. The Essential Requirements relate to the quality, safety and performance of the medical devices. Compliance with the Essential Requirements entitles a manufacturer to affix the Conformité Européenne mark, or CE mark, without which the products cannot be placed on the market in the European Union and the European Free Trade Association countries. To demonstrate compliance with the Essential Requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE mark, medical device manufacturers must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification.
 
The Medical Devices Directive establishes a classification system placing devices into Class I, IIa, IIb, or III, depending on the risks and characteristics of the medical device. For certain types of low risk medical devices, the manufacturer may prepare a CE Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the Essential Requirements set forth in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive. Other devices are subject to a conformity assessment procedure requiring the intervention of a “notified body,” which is a private organization designated by the competent authorities of an E.U. Member State to conduct conformity assessments and verify the conformity of manufacturers and their medical devices with the Essential Requirements. The notified body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the Essential Requirements. This Certificate entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its medical devices after having prepared and signed a related Declaration of Conformity.
 
Compliance Program
 
Compliance with government rules and regulations is a significant concern throughout the industry, in part due to evolving interpretations of these rules and regulations. We seek to conduct our business in compliance with all statutes and regulations applicable to our operations. To this end, we have established a compliance program that reviews for regulatory compliance procedures, policies, and facilities throughout our business. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as clinical holds, refusal of regulatory authorities to approve or authorize pending product applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution.
Legal Proceedings 
 
See “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report, which is incorporated into this Part 1, Item 1 by this reference.
 
Employees
 
As of the date of filing this report, we employed two executive officers, one full-time employee and four part-time employees. We expect that we will hire more employees as we expand.
 
Executive officers
 
The names of our executive officers and their ages as of December 31, 2017 are as follows:
 

Name | Age | Position 
----------------------------+-----+-------------------------------------------------------------
Executive Officers: | | 
Steven C. Quay, M.D., Ph.D. | 67 | Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
Kyle Guse, Esq., CPA | 54 | Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary 


23
--

 

Steven C. Quay, M.D., Ph.D. Dr. Quay has served as Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since the Company was incorporated in April 2009. Prior to his work at the Company, Dr. Quay served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of MDRNA, Inc., a biotechnology company focused on the development and commercialization of RNAi-based therapeutic products, from August 2000 to May 2008, and as its Chief Scientific Officer until November 30, 2008 (MDRNA, Inc. was formerly known as Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc. and is currently known as Marina Biotech, Inc.). From December 2008 to April 2009, Dr. Quay was involved in acquiring the Company’s assets and preparing the Company’s business plan. Dr. Quay is certified in Anatomic Pathology with the American Board of Pathology, completed both an internship and residency in anatomic pathology at Massachusetts General Hospital, a Harvard Medical School teaching hospital, is a former faculty member of the Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, and is a named inventor on 14 U.S. and foreign patents covering the ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator. Including the patents for the ForeCYTE Breast Aspirator, Dr. Quay is a named inventor on 86 U.S. patents, 129 pending patent applications and is a named inventor on patents covering five pharmaceutical products that have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Dr. Quay received an M.D. in 1977 and a Ph.D. in 1975 from the University of Michigan Medical School. He also received his B.A. degree in biology, chemistry and mathematics from Western Michigan University in 1971. Dr. Quay is a member of the American Society of Investigative Pathology, the Association of Molecular Pathology, the Society for Laboratory Automation and Screening and the Association of Pathology Informatics. 
 
Kyle Guse, Esq., CPA.  Mr. Guse has served as Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2013. His experience includes more than 25 years of counseling life sciences and other rapid growth companies through all aspects of finance, corporate governance, securities laws and commercialization. Mr. Guse has practiced law at several of the largest international law firms, including from January 2012 through January 2013 as a partner at Baker Botts LLP and, prior to that, from October 2007 to January 2012, as a partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP. Before working at McDermott Will & Emery, Mr. Guse previously served as a partner at Heller Ehrman LLP. Mr. Guse began his career as an accountant at Deloitte & Touche and he is a licensed Certified Public Accountant and member of the Bar in the State of California. Mr. Guse earned a B.S. in business administration and an M.B.A. from California State University, Sacramento, and a J.D. from Santa Clara University School of Law.

24
--

Insurance
 
We currently maintain director’s and officer’s insurance, key-man life insurance for our Chief Executive Officer, commercial general and office premises liability insurance, insurance on our clinical studies, and product errors and omissions liability insurance for our products and services.

25
--

Research and Development Phase
 
We are in the research and development phase and are not currently marketing any products or services. We do not anticipate generating revenue unless and until we develop and launch our pharmaceutical or device programs.

26
--

