Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business
--------+---------

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement includes phrases such as National Research Corporation, doing business as NRC Health (“NRC Health,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or similar terms), “believes,” “expects,” or other words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe the Company’s future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those currently anticipated. Factors that could affect actual results or outcomes include, without limitation, the following factors:

● | The possibility of non-renewal of the Company’s client service contracts and retention of key clients;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The Company’s ability to compete in its markets, which are highly competitive, and the possibility of increased price pressure and expenses;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The effects of an economic downturn;
--+-------------------------------------


● | The impact of consolidation in the healthcare industry;
--+--------------------------------------------------------


● | The impact of federal healthcare reform legislation or other regulatory changes;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The Company’s ability to attract and retain key managers and other personnel;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The possibility that the Company’s intellectual property and other proprietary information technology could be copied or independently developed by its competitors;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The possibility that the Company could be subject to security breaches or computer viruses; and
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | The factors set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these and other factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included are only made as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by the federal securities laws.
 
General
 
The Company is a leading provider of analytics and insights that facilitate measurement and improvement of the patient and employee experience while also increasing patient engagement and customer loyalty for healthcare providers, payers and other healthcare organizations. The Company’s solutions enable its clients to understand the voice of the customer with greater clarity, immediacy and depth. NRC Health’s heritage, proprietary methods, and holistic approach enable our partners to better understand the people they care for and design experiences that inspire loyalty and trust, while also facilitating regulatory compliance and the shift to population-based health management. The Company’s ability to measure what matters most and systematically capture, analyze and deliver insights based on self-reported information from patients, families and consumers is critical in today’s healthcare market. NRC Health believes that access to and analysis of its extensive consumer-driven information is becoming more valuable as healthcare providers increasingly need to more deeply understand and engage patients and consumers in an effort towards effective population-based health management. 
 
 1


NRC Health’s expertise includes the efficient capture, interpretation, transmittal and benchmarking of critical data elements from millions of healthcare consumers. Using its portfolio of solutions through internet-based business intelligence tools, the Company’s clients gain insights into what people think and feel about their organizations in real-time, allowing them to build on their strengths and resolve service issues with greater speed and personalization. The Company’s clients are also able to access networking groups, on-line education and an extensive library of performance improvement material that can be tailored to each of their unique needs. 
 
The Company’s portfolio of subscription-based solutions provide actionable information and analysis to healthcare organizations and payers across a range of mission-critical, constituent-related elements, including patient experience and satisfaction, community population health risks, workforce engagement, community perceptions, and physician engagement. NRC Health partners with clients across the continuum of healthcare services. The Company’s clients range from integrated health systems and post-acute providers, such as home health, long term care and hospice, to numerous payer organizations. The Company believes this cross-continuum positioning is a unique and an increasingly important capability as evolving payment models drive healthcare providers and payers towards a more collaborative and integrated service model.
 
NRC Health has achieved a market leadership position through its more than 36 years of industry innovation and experience, as well as its long-term, recurring revenue relationships (solutions that are used or required by a client each year) with many of the healthcare industry’s largest organizations. Since its founding in 1981, the Company has focused on meeting the evolving information needs of the healthcare industry through internal product development, as well as select acquisitions. The Company is a Wisconsin corporation headquartered in Lincoln, Nebraska.
 
Industry and Market Opportunity
 
According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), health expenditures in the United States were approximately $3.3 trillion in 2016, or $10,348 per person. In total, health spending accounted for 17.9% of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product in 2016. Addressing this growing expenditure burden continues to be a major policy priority at both federal and state levels. In addition, increased co-pays and deductibles in healthcare plans have focused even more consumer attention on health spending and affordability. In the public sector, Medicare provides health coverage for individuals aged 65 and older, while Medicaid provides coverage for low income families and other individuals in need. Both programs are administered by the CMS. With the aging of the U.S. population, Medicare enrollment has increased significantly.  In addition, longer life spans and greater prevalence of chronic illnesses among both the Medicare and Medicaid populations have placed tremendous demands on the health care system. 
 
Driven by escalating costs and a growing recognition of the challenges of chronic care and unnecessary hospitalizations, Medicare reimbursement for healthcare providers is shifting from a volume-based approach (fees paid for each element of service rendered, independent of outcome) to a more value-based model, where reimbursement is based on the value (or quality) of the healthcare service delivered. The establishment of standardized quality-focused datasets and the requirement that providers capture and transmit this data to CMS has enabled this shift.
 
An increasing percentage of Medicare reimbursement and reimbursement from commercial payers will be determined under value payment models, based on factors such as patient readmission rates and provider adherence to certain quality-related protocols. At the same time, many hospitals and other providers are creating new models of care delivery to improve patient experience, reduce cost and provide better clinical outcomes. These new models are based on sharing financial risk and managing the health and behaviors of large populations of patients and consumers. Certain of these new models are known as accountable care organizations, or ACOs, and medical homes, in which multiple provider organizations are coordinated in providing care and bearing shared financial risk in serving a defined patient population. This transformation towards value-based payment models and increased engagement of healthcare consumers is resulting in a greater need for providers to deliver more customer-centric healthcare. 
 
 2


NRC Health believes that its current portfolio of solutions is aligned to address this evolving market opportunity. The Company provides tools and solutions to capture, interpret and improve the data required by CMS as well as enhanced capabilities that capture insights about patient health risks, behaviors and perceptions. The information and analytics provided through these solutions enable payers and providers to better understand what matters most to people at key moments in their relationship with a health organization. NRC Health’s solutions enable its clients to design experiences to improve the wellbeing of the people and communities they care for. In addition, the Company’s portfolio of experience solutions helps providers address and impact the types of behaviors that could result in reduced hospital re-admission rates, and a direct and measurable impact on providers’ revenue. 
 
Finally, the Company believes that its ability to offer these insights across the entire care continuum is particularly relevant as new reimbursement models reward collaboration amongst different types of providers. Bundled payments, medical home, ACOs and other models of reimbursement for population-based health management all require effective coordination of care both within and outside of the traditional acute care settings.
 
NRC Health’s Solutions
 
NRC Health’s portfolio of solutions are designed to help healthcare companies understand the totality of how their organizations are experienced by the people they serve. NRC Health’s solutions address specific needs around market insight, experience, transparency, and governance for healthcare providers, payers and other healthcare organizations. While each distinct solution provides discernible value on a stand-alone basis, the Company believes that in combination, its solutions provide value through a comprehensive view of healthcare consumers both within healthcare settings and outside of those settings—creating a differentiated solution set to address the emerging needs for population-based health management. 
 
NRC Health’s Market Insights Solutions – NRC Health’s Market Insights solutions are subscription-based services that allow for improved tracking of awareness, perception, and consistency of healthcare brands; real-time assessment of competitive differentiators; and enhanced segmentation tools to evaluate the needs, wants, and behaviors of communities through real-time competitive assessments and enhanced segmentation tools. NRC Health’s Market Insights is the largest U.S. healthcare consumer database of its kind, measuring the opinions and behaviors of more than 292,000 healthcare consumers in the top 300 markets across the country annually. NRC Health’s Market Insights is a syndicated survey that provides clients with an independent third-party source of information that is used to understand consumer perception and preferences and optimize marketing strategies. NRC Health’s Market Insights solutions provide clients with on-demand tools to measure brand value and build brand equity in their markets, evaluate and optimize advertising efficacy and consumer recall, and tailor research to obtain the real time voice of customer feedback to support branding and loyalty initiatives. The Company’s Market Insights solutions were historically marketed under the Healthcare Market Guide and Ticker brands. 
 
NRC Health’s Experience Solutions – NRC Health’s Experience solutions provide hospitals and healthcare providers the ability to receive and take action on customer and employee feedback across all care settings in real-time. Experience solutions include patient and resident experience, workforce engagement, health risk assessments, transitions, and improvement tools, which are provided through the Experience, Transitions and National Research Canada Corporation operating segments. These solutions enable clients to comply with regulatory requirements and to improve their reimbursement under value-based purchasing models. More importantly, NRC Health’s Experience solutions provide quantitative and qualitative real-time feedback, improvement plans, and coaching tools to enable clients to improve the experiences of patients, residents, physicians and staff.   By illuminating the complete care journey in real time, the Company’s clients are able to ensure each individual receives the care, respect, and experience he or she deserves. Developing a longitudinal profile of what healthcare customers want and need allows for organizational improvement, increased clinician and staff engagement, loyal relationships and personal well-being. 
 
 3


NRC Health’s Experience solutions are provided on a subscription basis via a cross-continuum platform that collects and measures data and then delivers business intelligence that the Company’s clients utilize to improve patient experience, engagement and loyalty. Patient data can be collected on a longitudinal basis for improvement and regulatory compliance purposes as well as on a real time basis to support service recovery, rapid cycle improvement, and engagement activities. NRC Health provides these performance results and prescriptive analytics to its clients via web-based improvement planning and business intelligence portals. These solutions have previously been marketed under NRC Picker, My InnerView (“MIV”), Customer-Connect LLC (doing business as Connect), and NRC Canada.
 
NRC Health’s Health Risk Assessment solutions (formerly Payer Solutions) enable the Company’s clients to understand the health risks associated with populations of patients, analyze and address readmission risks, and efficiently reach out to patients to impact their behaviors outside of the healthcare provider settings. These health risk assessment solutions enable clients to effectively segment populations and manage care for those who are most at-risk, engage individuals, increase preventative care and manage wellness programs to improve patient experience and outcomes. 
 
NRC Health’s Transitions solutions are provided to healthcare organizations on a subscription basis to drive effective communication between healthcare providers and patients in the critical 24-72 hours post discharge using a discharge call program. Through preference-based communications and real-time alerts, these solutions enable organizations to identify and manage high-risk patients to reduce readmissions, increase patient satisfaction and support safe care transitions. Tracking, trending and benchmarking tools isolate the key areas for process improvement allowing organizations to implement changes and reduce future readmissions. NRC Health’s Transitions solutions were previously provided by Connect. Connect was formed in June 2013 to develop and provide patient outreach and discharge call solutions. NRC Health originally had a 49% ownership interest in Connect but by March 2016 had acquired all of the remaining interest and subsequently dissolved Customer-Connect LLC in June 2016. 
 
NRC Health’s Transparency Solutions – NRC Health’s Transparency solutions allow healthcare organizations to share a picture of their organization and ensure that timely and relevant content informs better consumer decision-making. NRC Health’s star ratings solution (formerly Reputation) enables clients to publish a five-star rating metric and verified patient feedback derived from actual patient survey data to complement their online physician information. Sharing this feedback not only results in better-informed consumer decision-making but also has the ability to drive new patient acquisition and grow online physician reputation. NRC Health’s reputation monitoring solution alerts clients to ratings and reviews on third-party websites and provides workflows for response and service recovery. These solutions raise physician awareness of survey results and provide access to improvement resources and educational development opportunities designed to improve the way care is delivered. 
 
NRC Health’s Governance Solutions – NRC Health’s Governance solutions, branded as The Governance Institute (“TGI”), serves not-for-profit hospital and health system boards of directors, executives, and physician leadership. TGI’s subscription-based, value-driven membership services are provided through national conferences, publications, advisory services, and an on-line portal designed to improve the effectiveness of hospital and healthcare systems by continually strengthening their board governance, strategic planning, medical leadership, management performance, and transparency positioning. TGI also conducts research studies and tracks industry trends showcasing emerging healthcare trends and best practice solutions of healthcare boards across the country. 
 
 4


NRC Health’s Competitive Strengths
 
The Company believes that its competitive strengths include the following:
 
A leading provider of patient experience solutions for healthcare providers, payers and other healthcare organizations. The Company’s history is based on capturing the voice of the consumer in healthcare markets. The Company’s solutions build on the “Eight Dimensions of Patient-Centered Care,” a philosophy developed by noted patient advocate Harvey Picker, who believed patients’ experiences are integral to quality healthcare. NRC Health has extended this philosophy to include families, caregivers, employees and other stakeholders.
 
Premier client portfolio across the care continuum.  NRC Health’s client portfolio encompasses leading healthcare organizations across the healthcare continuum, from acute care hospitals and post-acute providers to healthcare payers. The Company’s client base is diverse, with its top ten clients representing approximately 19% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 and no single client representing more than 5% of the Company’s revenue. 
 
Highly scalable and visible revenue model. The Company’s solutions are offered to healthcare providers, payers and other healthcare organizations primarily through subscription-based service agreements. The solutions NRC Health provides are also recurring in nature, which enables an ongoing relationship with its clients. This combination of subscription-based revenue, a base of ongoing client renewals and automated platforms creates a highly visible and scalable revenue model for the Company. 
 
Comprehensive portfolio of solutions. Since NRC Health offers solutions encompassing market insights, experience, transparency, and governance, its clients can engage with the Company at multiple levels and, over time, increase their commitment and the financial value of their business relationship. 
 
Exclusive focus on healthcare.  The Company focuses exclusively on healthcare and serving the unique needs of healthcare organizations across the continuum, which NRC Health believes gives it a distinct competitive advantage compared to other survey and analytics software providers. The Company’s platform includes features and capabilities built specifically for healthcare providers, including a library of performance improvement content which can be tailored to the provider based on their specific customer feedback profile. 
  Experienced senior management team led by NRC Health’s founder. NRC Health’s senior management team has extensive industry and leadership experience. Michael D. Hays, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, founded NRC Health in 1981. Prior to launching the Company, Mr. Hays served as Vice President and as a Director of SRI Research Center, Inc. (now known as the Gallup Organization). The Chief Financial Officer, Kevin Karas, CPA, has extensive financial experience having served as CFO at two previous companies, along with healthcare experience at Rehab Designs of America, Inc. and NovaCare, Inc. Steven D. Jackson, the Company’s President, served as Chief Strategy Officer for Vocera Communications, and he also served as Chief Operating Officer for ExperiaHealth. 
 
Competition
 
The healthcare information and market research services industry is highly competitive. The Company has traditionally competed with healthcare organizations’ internal marketing, market research, and/or quality improvement departments which create their own performance measurement tools, and with relatively small specialty research firms which provide survey-based healthcare market research and/or performance assessment. The Company’s primary competitors among such specialty firms include Press Ganey, which has significantly higher annual revenue than the Company, and three or four other organizations that NRC Health believes have less annual revenue than the Company. The Company, to a certain degree, currently competes with, and anticipates that in the future it may increasingly compete with, (1) market research firms and technology solutions which provide survey-based, general market research or Voice of the Customer feedback capabilities and (2) firms which provide services or products that complement healthcare performance assessments such as healthcare software or information systems. Although only a few of these competitors have offered specific services that compete directly with the Company’s solutions, many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, information gathering, and marketing resources than the Company and could decide to increase their resource commitments to the Company’s market. There are relatively few barriers to entry into the Company’s market, and the Company expects increased competition in its market which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results through pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures, and market share losses, among other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. 
 
 5


The Company believes the primary competitive factors within its market include quality of service, timeliness of delivery, unique service capabilities, credibility of provider, industry experience, and price. NRC Health believes that its industry leadership position, exclusive focus on the healthcare industry, cross-continuum presence, comprehensive portfolio of solutions and relationships with leading healthcare payers and providers position the Company to compete in this market.
 
Growth Strategy
 
NRC Health believes that the value proposition of its current solutions, combined with the favorable alignment of its solutions with emerging market demand, positions the Company to benefit from multiple growth opportunities. The Company believes that it can accelerate its growth through (1) increasing sales of its existing solutions to its existing clients (or cross-selling), (2) winning additional new clients through market share growth in existing market segments, (3) developing and introducing new solutions to new and existing clients, and (4) pursuing acquisitions of, or investments in, firms providing products, solutions or technologies which complement those of the Company.
 
Selling additional solutions to existing clients. Approximately 22% of the Company’s existing clients purchase more than one of its solutions. NRC Health’s sales organization actively identifies and pursues these cross-sell opportunities in order to accelerate the growth of the Company. 
 
Adding new clients. NRC Health believes that there is an opportunity to add new clients in each of the acute care, post-acute care and health plan market segments. The Company’s sales organization is actively identifying and engaging new client prospects in each of the segments noted above, with a focus on featuring its comprehensive cross continuum portfolio of solutions. 
 
Adding new solutions. The need for growth, engagement and informing solutions in the market segments that NRC Health serves is evolving to align with emerging healthcare regulatory and reimbursement trends. The evolving market creates an opportunity for the Company to introduce new solutions that leverage its existing core competencies. The Company believes that there is an opportunity to drive sales growth with both existing and new clients, across all of the market segments that it serves, through the introduction of new solutions. 
 
Pursue strategic acquisitions and investments. The Company has historically complemented its organic growth with strategic acquisitions, having completed seven such transactions over the past sixteen years. These transactions have added new capabilities and access to market segments that are adjacent and complementary to the Company’s existing solutions and market segments. NRC Health believes that additional strategic acquisition and/or investment opportunities exist for the Company to complement its organic growth by further expanding its service capabilities, technology offerings and end markets.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
The Company generates the majority of its revenue from the renewal of subscription-based client service agreements, supplemented by sales of other solutions to existing clients and the addition of new clients. NRC Health sales activities are carried out by a direct sales organization staffed with professional, trained sales associates. As compared to the typical industry practice of compensating sales associates with relatively high base pay and a relatively small sales commission, NRC Health compensates its sales staff with relatively low base pay and a relatively high commission component. The Company believes this compensation structure provides incentives to its sales associates to surpass sales goals and increases the Company’s ability to attract top-quality sales associates. 
 
 6


NRC Health conducts various marketing programs to generate new opportunities for its sales organization. The Company also maintains an active public relations program which includes (1) an ongoing presence in leading industry trade press and in the mainstream press, (2) public speaking at strategic industry conferences, (3) fostering relationships with key industry constituencies, and (4) annual awards programs that recognize top-ranking healthcare organizations.
Clients
 
NRC Health’s clients include many of the nation’s largest healthcare systems. The Company provides solutions to over 47 payer health plans and 148 of the 200 largest health systems. 
 
The Company’s ten largest clients accounted for 19%, 17%, and 15% of the Company’s total revenue in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Approximately 4%, 5% and 5% of the Company’s revenue was derived from foreign customers in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.
 
For financial information by geographic area, see Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 
Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights
 
The Company’s success depends in part upon its data collection processes, research methods, data analysis techniques and internal systems, and procedures that it has developed specifically to serve clients in the healthcare industry. The Company has no patents. Consequently, it relies on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws and associate nondisclosure agreements to protect its systems, survey instruments and procedures. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such rights or that third parties will not independently develop functionally equivalent or superior systems or procedures. The Company believes that its systems and procedures and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future or that any such claims will not result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims or whether the Company is ultimately successful in defending against such claims.
Associates
 
As of December 31, 2017, the Company employed a total of 430 persons on a full-time basis. In addition, as of such date, the Company had 28 part-time associates primarily in its survey operations, representing approximately 14 full-time equivalent associates. None of the Company’s associates are represented by a collective bargaining unit. The Company considers its relationship with its associates to be good. 
 
Executive Officers of the Company
 
The following table sets forth certain information as of February 1, 2018, regarding the executive officers of the Company: 
 

Name | Age | Position 
------------------+-----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Michael D. Hays | 63 | Chief Executive Officer 
Steven D. Jackson | 42 | President 
Kevin R. Karas | 60 | Senior Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary

 
 7


Michael D. Hays has served as Chief Executive Officer and a director since he founded the Company in 1981. He also served as President of the Company from 1981 to 2004 and from July 2008 to July 2011. Prior to founding the Company, Mr. Hays served for seven years as a Vice President and a director of SRI Research Center, Inc. (n/k/a the Gallup Organization).
 
Steven D. Jackson has served as President of the Company since October 2015. He served as Group President from October 2014 until September 2015, during which time he oversaw the Company’s Market Insights, Transparency, and Predictive Analytics business units. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Jackson served as Chief Strategy Officer for Vocera Communications where he was employed from 2007 to 2014. He also served as Chief Operating Officer for ExperiaHealth, a subsidiary of Vocera. Earlier in his career, Mr. Jackson held positions of increasing responsibility at The Advisory Board Company, Neoforma, and Stockamp & Associates.
 
Kevin R. Karas has served as Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of the Company since September 2011, and as Senior Vice President Finance since he joined the Company in December 2010. From 2005 to 2010, he served as Vice President of Finance for Lifetouch Portrait Studios, Inc., a national retail photography company.  Mr. Karas also previously served as Chief Financial Officer at CARSTAR, Inc., an automobile collision repair franchise business, from 2000 to 2005, Chief Financial Officer at Rehab Designs of America, Inc., a provider of orthotic and prosthetic services, from 1993 to 2000, and as a regional Vice President of Finance and Vice President of Operations at Novacare, Inc., a provider of physical rehabilitation services, from 1988 to 1993.  He began his career as a Certified Public Accountant at Ernst & Young.
 
Executive officers of the Company are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. There are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of NRC Health.
 
Available Information
 
More information regarding NRC Health is available on the Company's website at www.nrchealth.com. NRC Health is not including the information contained on or available through its website as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available to the public at no charge through a link appearing on the Company's website. NRC Health provides access to such materials through its website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Reports and amendments posted on the Company’s website do not include access to exhibits and supplemental schedules electronically filed with the reports or amendments.
 
