Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
 
We are a vertically integrated, advanced materials provider specializing in monocrystalline sapphire for applications in optical and industrial systems. We design, assemble and maintain our own proprietary crystal growth furnaces to grow high-purity, low-stress, ultra-low-defect-density sapphire crystals. We apply our proprietary crystal growth technology to produce high-quality sapphire products to meet our customers exacting specifications. Sapphire is a desirable material for high-performance applications due to its hardness and strength, transparency in the visible and IR spectrum, thermal conductivity, thermal shock resistance, abrasion resistance, high melting point and chemical inertness. As a result, it is ideally suited for extreme environments in a range of industries where material durability is just as important as optical clarity. 
 
Historically, we have also provided sapphire products to the LED and mobile device markets, which are the largest markets for sapphire. However, given competitive pressures in those markets, in September 2016 we announced our decision to limit our focus in the near-term on the optical and industrial sapphire markets and exit the LED market. We believe that we continue to have a reputation as one of the highest quality sapphire producers in the market. We provide optical and industrial sapphire products in various shapes and sizes, including round and rectangular windows and blanks, domes, tubes and rods.
 
With the decision to exit the LED market, in November 2016 we stopped our production activities located in Penang, Malaysia and subsequently closed this facility. Our wafer patterning equipment located in Malaysia was sold in the fourth quarter of 2016 for $4.5 million. We held an auction in March 2017 in an effort to sell certain polishing and fabrication equipment with mixed results. Since the March 2017 auction, we have sold some additional equipment and continue to seek buyers for the remaining unsold equipment. Additionally, we are seeking to sell our Malaysia real estate. The timing of the sale of the remaining equipment and real estate located in Malaysia is difficult to predict.
 

2
-

 

Following the decision in the fourth quarter 2016 to focus on smaller optical and industrial sapphire markets, we determined that we had more crystal growth and fabrication capacity in the U.S. than we needed for our current business strategy. Consequently, we have consolidated operations into our leased spaces in Bensenville, Illinois and Franklin Park, Illinois and vacated our owned facility in Batavia, Illinois. In March 2017, we held an auction to sell excess equipment from our Batavia facility. Other than crystal growth furnaces, most of the equipment was sold. The plant itself is a special purpose facility with extensive enhancements to power and water-cooling systems required for crystal growth production.
 
We are actively trying to sell or lease this property and our initial focus is to find a buyer that is interested in both the building and its improved infrastructure. However, to date we have been unable to find a buyer that values such enhancements and ultimately may be unable to sell this real estate for more than the value of a standard facility. In fact we may be required by a buyer to pay for the removal of the enhancements. The timing on the sale or lease of this real estate and our crystal growth furnaces is difficult to predict.
 
Historically, we sold sapphire cores into the mobile device market and sapphire cores and wafers into the LED market. With the cessation of our LED-related production activities at our Malaysia facility, our LED revenue ceased. Approximately 91% of our 2017 sales came from optical and industrial sapphire components. The following table summarizes optical revenue for each of the last three years:
 

Year ended December 31, | Optical revenue (in thousands) | | % of total revenue
------------------------+--------------------------------+-------+-------------------
2017 | $ | 4,615 | | 91 | %
2016 | $ | 4,568 | | 23 | %
2015 | $ | 5,086 | | 21 | %

 
We operate in a very competitive market. Our ability to expand our optical and industrial business and the acceptance of new product offerings is difficult to predict.
 
In addition, our optical and industrial sapphire business serves smaller markets than our historical undertakings, so we are actively evaluating the acquisition of profitable companies outside of the sapphire market in order to utilize our substantial net tax loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”).
 
We are a Delaware corporation incorporated on February 7, 2001. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol “RBCN.”
 
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 
 
Sapphire is utilized in optical and industrial applications. It is used for windows and optics for aerospace, sensor, medical, semiconductor, instrumentation, electronics and laser applications due to its wide-band transmission, superior strength, chemical and scratch resistance and high strength-to-weight ratio. Sapphire’s physical and optical properties also make it very well suited for defense applications such as electro-optical and sensor suite windows for military fighter jets, helicopters, unmanned air vehicles and ships, forward-looking infrared windows for commercial and business aircrafts as well as missile domes, submarine windows and components and transparent armor for military vehicles. We believe that these markets may be growing as new applications for sapphire emerge for larger size and higher quality sapphire components and also due to the availability of more cost effective sapphire part production.
TECHNOLOGY 
 
Our proprietary crystal growth technique, which we refer to as ES2, produces high-quality sapphire crystals for use in our sapphire products. ES2 is derived from the standard Kyropoulos method of crystal growth. We developed this technique with the goal of establishing greater control over the crystal growth process while maintaining minimal temperature variations. Unlike other techniques, during the ES2 technique, the growing sapphire crystal exists in an unconstrained, low stress environment inside a closed growth chamber. The closed system allows for enhanced control of the melt, resulting in higher quality crystals. The temperature gradient between the melt and the crystal in the ES2 technique is significantly lower than in other crystal growth techniques. These aspects of the ES2 technique enable us to grow crystals that have a significantly lower dislocation density, higher crystal purity and greater uniformity than sapphire crystals grown using other techniques. The ES2 technique provides an inherent annealing process once the crystal is fully grown. This thermal annealing is an integral means of relieving stress in the crystal during the ES2 process. We have demonstrated the ability to readily scale our ES2 technology in a production environment while maintaining high crystal quality even as crystal boule size is increased.

3
-

 

Our furnace environments are controlled by closed-loop control systems and the overall crystal growth process is run with minimal operator intervention. A single operator can supervise the control of multiple ES2 furnaces simultaneously, which reduces costs.
 
We have now completed crystal growth development for our Large Area Net Shaped Crystal Extraction (“LANCE”) technology, which is a technology designed to produce very large, thick sapphire windows. This technology was developed with government funding under a contract with the Air Force Research Laboratory. We have completed the growth of the window blank deliverables on this project, including the largest size sapphire window in the world at 36 x 18 x 0.8 inch dimensions. The project will not be fully completed until our subcontractors complete the polishing of the windows. We will continue to refine the process to improve yield; however, our main focus now is the development of the market for these larger windows. The product has been displayed at trade shows and has attracted interest both from military and industrial product developers.
 
PRODUCTS 
 
We believe the developing optical and industrial markets require large diameter sapphire products, high quality sapphire and ultra-thin double side polished windows and wafers which may be beyond the capability of many sapphire suppliers. In addition, military and defense applications often require a U.S. based source for sapphire. We believe we continue to have a reputation for producing the highest quality optical-grade sapphire. We also have the ability to maintain that crystal quality in very large sizes, to support a strong and developing U.S. customer base, and to provide very high performance ultra-thin double side polished sapphire products, which we believe positions us well in the optical, laser, and epitaxial growth markets.
 
We provide optical and industrial sapphire products in various shapes and sizes, including round and rectangular windows and blanks, domes, tubes and rods. These optical sapphire products are qualified and used in equipment for a wide variety of end markets and high performance applications including defense and aerospace, specialty lighting, instrumentation, sensors and detectors, semiconductor process equipment, electronic substrates, medical and laser applications.
 
We believe we offer the industry’s largest sapphire windows and highest quality, ultra-thin, double side polished windows and substrates. Our product lines include very thin, double-side polished windows as thin as 300 microns for 6” optical diameter substrates, and also very large-area blanks and polished windows. We offer round C-plane sapphire windows up to 11” in diameter and A-plane windows up to 18” in diameter with UV grade windows up to 13.5” in diameter. We also have produced sapphire window blanks at 36” x 18” x 0.8” dimensions.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
In 2017 and 2016, our R&D expenses totaled $962,000 and $2.5 million, respectively. The scope of R&D projects has been reduced, and we expect R&D expenses to be significantly lower in 2018. These expenses generally do not include costs incurred in connection with our R&D activities under the LANCE government contract. However, in 2017 and 2016 we recorded estimated costs of $26,000 and $217,000 in excess of the contract value at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
 
Production expenses associated with the LANCE government agreement up to the contract value are accounted for as revenue and cost of goods sold. We record R&D revenue associated with the LANCE government contract as costs are incurred plus a fixed fee. For each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 revenue from R&D accounted for less than 10% of our revenue. Since 2012, we have recorded $4.7 million in revenue and the total value of the contract is $4.7 million. As LANCE is largely complete, we expect our R&D revenue to be less than $100,000 in 2018.
 
MANUFACTURING 
 
The process of growing the crystal begins by heating the raw material, aluminum oxide, until it reaches an ideal temperature above its melting point. This ideal temperature is essential for our process because it allows us to produce high-purity crystals with very low defect rates. Following the heating, a seed rod is inserted in the melted material as the material is being cooled to crystallize into a boule. Following the growth process, each boule is rigorously inspected by using polarized lighting and magnification to find imperfections, such as bubbles, dislocations and granular deposits within the crystal.

4
-

 

We then drill the resulting boules into cylindrical cores using our custom high-precision crystal orientation equipment and proprietary processes. For many of our parts, the cores are then finished through an outsourcing model using trusted partners.
 
We are dedicated to quality assurance throughout our entire operation. We employ detailed material traceability from raw material to finished product. Our quality system is certified as ISO9001:2000.
 
All of our long-lived assets are located in the U.S. and Malaysia. While there are long-lived assets in Malaysia, we are attempting to sell them, as that facility is shut-down and is not an active part of our operations. For more information see Note 2 – Segment Information to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
SALES AND MARKETING 
 
We market and sell our products through our direct sales force to customers. Our direct sales force includes experienced and technically sophisticated sales professionals and engineers who are knowledgeable in the development, manufacturing and use of sapphire windows and other optical materials. Our sales staff works with customers during all stages of the manufacturing process, from developing the precise composition of the parts through manufacturing and processing the parts to the customers’ specifications.
 
A key component of our marketing strategy is developing and maintaining strong relationships with our customers. We achieve this by working closely with our customers to optimize our products for their production processes. In addition, we are able to develop long-term relationships with key customers by offering product specification assistance, providing direct access to enable them to evaluate and audit our operations, delivering high-quality products and providing superior customer service. We believe that maintaining close relationships with our customers’ senior management and providing technical support improves customer satisfaction.
 
In order to increase brand recognition of our products and our Company in general we publish technical articles, distribute promotional materials and participate in industry trade shows and conferences.
 
CUSTOMERS 
 
Our principal customers have been defense sub-contractors, industrial manufacturers, fabricators and resellers. A substantial portion of our sales have been to a small number of customers. In 2017 our top customers accounted for in the aggregate approximately 31% of our revenue and in 2016, the top customer accounted for approximately 60% of our revenue. Although we are attempting to diversify and expand our customer base, we expect our sales to continue to be concentrated among a small number of customers. However, we also expect that our significant customers may change from time to time. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues during 2017 or 2016.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
Our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and other confidential information is a key factor in our ability to compete successfully. We rely primarily upon a combination of patent, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers and potential customers to protect our intellectual property. We have six patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office expiring between 2027 and 2030. In addition, we have an aggregate of seven pending patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and with various other foreign countries. The patents and patent applications mostly cover aspects of our core production, wafer grinding and lapping technologies. However, we believe that factors such as the technological and innovative abilities of our personnel, the success of our ongoing product development efforts and our efforts to maintain trade secret protection are more important than patents in maintaining our competitive position. We pursue the registration of certain of our trademarks in the U.S. and currently have three registered trademarks.
COMPETITION 
 
The markets for high-quality sapphire products are very competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. The products we produce must meet certain demanding requirements to succeed in the marketplace. Although we are a well-established sapphire producer, we face significant competition from other established providers of similar products as well as from new and potential entrants into our markets.
 
We have several competitors that compete directly with us. We believe that the key competitive factors in our markets are:
 

● | consistently producing high-quality products in the desired size, orientation and finish;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | pricing; 
● | driving innovation through focused research and development efforts; 
● | producing large format high-quality crystal for certain applications; 
● | providing U.S.-based source of sapphire for military applications; and 
● | financial stability of the companies. 


5
-

 

We believe the developing optical and industrial markets require cost effective high quality sapphire, large diameter sapphire products and ultra-thin double side polished windows and wafers, which we have the capabilities to provide while certain other sapphire producers may not. In addition, defense applications often require a U.S. based source for sapphire. We believe we continue to have a reputation for producing the highest quality sapphire in the market. We believe this positions us well with competitive advantages in the markets for optical and industrial sapphire.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION 
 
In our manufacturing process, we use water, oils, slurries, acids, adhesives and other industrial chemicals. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of these materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions, whether intentional or inadvertent, could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The cost of complying with environmental regulation is not material.
EMPLOYEES 
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had 20 full-time employees and one full-time consultant of which 11 full time employees worked in technology and operations. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good.
OTHER INFORMATION 
 
You may access, free of charge, our reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those forms) over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available through our Internet website (www.rubicontechnology.com). Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC report (without exhibits) or document, write to Investor Relations, Rubicon Technology, Inc., 900 East Green Street, Bensenville, Illinois 60106, and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you, free of charge. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

6
-

