Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

General
DSW Inc. was incorporated in the state of Ohio in 1969, and we opened our first DSW store in Dublin, Ohio in 1991. DSW is the destination for on-trend footwear and accessory brands at a great value every single day. We offer a wide assortment of brand name dress, casual and athletic footwear and accessories for women, men and kids in DSW stores nationwide and on dsw.com. Our DSW customer loyalty program allows members to earn points towards certificates every time they purchase. We believe this combination of assortment, convenience and value differentiates us from our competitors and appeals to consumers from a broad range of socioeconomic and demographic backgrounds.
Our Affiliated Business Group ("ABG") partners with other retailers to help build and optimize their in-store and online footwear businesses by leveraging our sourcing network to produce a merchandise assortment that meets their needs. ABG currently provides service to 292 Stein Mart stores and Steinmart.com and one Frugal Fannie's store through ongoing supply arrangements. On March 13, 2017, Gordmans (a previous ABG partner) filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and announced its plan to liquidate inventory and other assets. Stage Stores, Inc. acquired 58 of the Gordmans' stores and we provided services for these stores through the end of fiscal 2017 to support their transition.
We also have an equity investment in Town Shoes Limited ("Town Shoes"). Town Shoes is the market leader in branded footwear in Canada, with sales of over $340 million Canadian dollars ("CAD") in fiscal 2017. As of February 3, 2018, Town Shoes operated 180 locations across Canada under The Shoe Company, Shoe Warehouse, Town Shoes and DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse banners, as well as related e-commerce sites. In 2014, we entered into a licensing agreement with Town Shoes, which allows Town Shoes to use the DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse tradename for their new larger concept Canadian stores. As of February 3, 2018, there are 24 DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse stores in Canada. 
On March 4, 2016, we acquired Ebuys, Inc. ("Ebuys"), an off price footwear and accessories retailer operating in digital marketplaces. Due to recurring operating losses incurred by Ebuys since its acquisition, as well as increased competitive pressures in the digital marketplaces, we have decided to exit the business and we intend to end all operations in early fiscal 2018. Our brief ownership has given us insight into online marketplaces, which will inform future potential decisions around accelerating our digital business and competing with traditional retail and direct-to-consumer models.
On August 2, 2016, we signed an agreement with the Apparel Group as an exclusive franchise partner in the Gulf Coast region of the Middle East. The agreement is expected to expand the DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse banner by up to 40 stores across the territory, both in malls and on high street locations within Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates and Oman, with three stores currently open.
The DSW segment, which includes DSW stores and dsw.com, is our only reportable segment. Our remaining operating segments and businesses are aggregated into an other category for segment reporting purposes. Information regarding segment performance is included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K. Additionally, selected segment financial data is presented in Note 16, Segment Reporting of the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.
Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. References to a fiscal year refer to the calendar year in which the fiscal year begins. This reporting schedule is followed by many national retail companies and typically results in a 52-week fiscal year, but occasionally will contain an additional week resulting in a 53-week fiscal year. The periods presented in these financial statements and selected financial data each consisted of 52 weeks, except for fiscal 2017 which consisted of 53 weeks. 
Competitive Strengths
The retail footwear market is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including department stores, mall-based shoe stores, national chains, independent shoe retailers, single-brand specialty retailers, online shoe retailers, brand-oriented discounters, multi-channel specialty retailers and brand suppliers who sell directly to consumers. Many of our competitors generally offer a more limited assortment at higher initial prices in a less convenient format than DSW and without the benefits of our customer loyalty program. In addition, we believe we successfully compete against retailers who have attempted to duplicate our format because they typically offer assortments with fewer recognizable brands and more styles from prior seasons, unlike DSW's current on-trend merchandise. We believe that our stores provide a competitive advantage that drives growth through customer engagement by using self-service fixtures that allow customers to view, touch and try on the product, stimulating digital sales, and providing a convenient location for 
1

customers to pick up and return products ordered online, as well as serving as geographically appropriate shipment centers for our digitally demanded products. We believe that having a leading market position is driven by our competitive strengths: assortment, convenience and value. 
Assortment
Our goal is to excite our customers with a competitive, compelling assortment of shoes and complementary accessories that fulfill a broad range of style and fashion preferences. DSW sells a large assortment of brand name, designer and private brand merchandise. We purchase directly from over 460 domestic and foreign vendors, primarily in-season footwear that can be found in specialty and department stores. We offer a broad assortment of handbags, hosiery, jewelry and other accessories which appeal to our brand and fashion conscious customers. 
Our vendors include suppliers who manufacture their own merchandise, or supply merchandise manufactured by others, or both. Most of our domestic vendors import a large portion of their merchandise from abroad. We have quality control programs under which our buyers are involved in establishing standards for quality and fit, and our personnel examine incoming merchandise in regards to color, material and overall quality. As our sales volume grows, we believe there will continue to be adequate sources available to acquire a sufficient supply of quality merchandise in a timely manner and on satisfactory economic terms. Our top three vendors in the aggregate supply approximately 20% of our merchandise.
Our merchandising group continuously monitors current fashion trends, as well as historical sales trends, to identify popular styles and styles that may become popular in the upcoming season. We track performance and sales trends on a weekly basis and have a flexible buying process that allows us to reorder successful styles and cancel underperforming styles throughout each season. To keep our product mix fresh and on target, we test new fashions and actively monitor sell-through rates. We also identify new vendor and category opportunities. During fiscal 2016, we launched DSW kids, which we continue to expand to the rest of the chain. 
We have three primary categories for merchandise: women's footwear; men's footwear; and accessories and other (which includes kids' footwear). The following table sets forth the approximate percentages of DSW segment net sales attributable to each merchandise category for fiscal 2017: 

Category | Percent of DSW Segment Net Sales
Women's footwear | 69 | %
Men's footwear | 22 | %
Accessories and other | 9 | %

Convenience
We provide our customers with the highest level of convenience based on our belief that customers should be empowered to control and personalize their shopping experiences. 
In stores, our merchandise is displayed on the selling floor with self-service fixtures to enable customers to view and touch the merchandise. We believe this shopping experience provides our customers with maximum convenience as they are able to browse and try on merchandise without feeling rushed or pressured to make a purchasing decision. Merchandise is organized in a logical manner that groups together similar styles by gender, such as dress, casual, athletic and seasonal merchandise, for easy browsing. 
Our omni-channel capabilities create an endless aisle for the customer. Customers can order additional styles, sizes, widths and categories that can be fulfilled from other DSW stores, our fulfillment center or directly from our suppliers (referred to as "drop ship"). To further meet customer demand of how they receive products, we provide our customers the options to buy online, pickup in store and buy online, ship to store. 
Our order routing optimization system determines the best location to fulfill digitally demanded products, which allows us to optimize our operating profit. Orders originating online can be fulfilled from a store or our fulfillment center. The fulfillment center processes orders, which are shipped to a customer's home or to a store when an order is placed through buy online, ship to store. Orders originating from a store that cannot be fulfilled immediately in that store can either be fulfilled from our ship from store capability, from the fulfillment center, or drop shipped from a vendors' warehouse.
2

Value For Our Customers
Our buying organization aims to provide customers with high quality, in-season fashion styles at attractive prices compared to the sale prices found at specialty retailers and department stores. We have historically employed a consistent pricing strategy that provides customers with the same price on our merchandise from the day it arrives in store until it enters our planned clearance rotation. Our pricing strategy differentiates us from our competitors who usually price and promote merchandise at discounts available only for limited time periods. We find that customers appreciate shopping for everyday value when it is most convenient for them, rather than waiting for a sale event. 
We provide additional value through our DSW Rewards program where members earn points towards discounts on future purchases. Members also receive promotional offers and gifts with purchase offers. We employ a variety of methods, including email, direct mail and social media, to communicate exclusive offers to our rewards customers. Approximately 25 million members are enrolled in our DSW Rewards program and have made at least one purchase over the course of the last two years. In fiscal 2017, shoppers in the loyalty program generated approximately 90% of DSW segment sales. During fiscal 2018, we are planning to launch a new loyalty program called DSW VIP, with new benefits, personalized options and faster ways to earn points. We believe these changes will activate more customers, increase purchase frequency and grow sales.
Growth Strategy

Our growth strategy is to strengthen our position as a leading footwear and accessories retailer by expanding into new markets with the right banners and store format, extending our customer reach through new categories and services, and creating a differentiated customer experience and strong value proposition. We will also continue utilizing our financial strength to invest in key initiatives that will strengthen our strategic position and extend our growth runway for years to come. 
Expanding Our Presence
We opened 15 DSW stores and closed four in fiscal 2017 and we plan to expand the chain by approximately three to six DSW stores in fiscal 2018. With our stores playing a key role in supporting our strong online demand growth and increasing fulfillment of that demand, we are regularly evaluating our real estate strategy to optimize how we can best serve the customers' shopping preferences. When we decide to open a new store in either new or existing markets, our primary focus is on power strip centers. We also look to reposition existing stores as opportunities arise. Depending on the market, we also consider regional malls, lifestyle centers and urban street locations. In general, our evaluation of potential new stores integrates information on demographics, co-tenancy, retail traffic patterns, site visibility and accessibility, store size and configuration, and lease terms. Our real estate decision-making entails an analysis of underlying demand for our products through both physical and digital channels. Our analysis also looks at current penetration levels in markets we serve and our ability to deepen our market share and acquire new customers.
Through our investment in Town Shoes, we serve Canadian customers with great values on branded footwear and accessories within a variety of concepts, including DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse stores. As of February 3, 2018, there are 24 DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse stores in Canada. 
Through our franchise arrangement with the Apparel Group, our first three franchise stores are now open. We expect to expand DSW by up to 40 stores in the Gulf Coast region of the Middle East, both in malls and on high street locations.
Investment in Our Infrastructure
We continue to invest in systems in order to enhance our customers' experience, both in-store and online, which includes supporting our omni-channel capabilities. We are also enhancing systems for back-office support. 
Our primary distribution center is located in an approximately 625,000 square foot facility in Columbus, Ohio. The distribution center operates to facilitate the prompt delivery of purchases and fast-selling footwear so we can take full advantage of each selling season. To further ensure prompt delivery, we engage a logistics service provider to receive orders originating from suppliers on the West Coast and some imports entering at a West Coast port of entry through a West Coast facility we utilize. Merchandise is transported either from the West Coast facility or our primary distribution center to our pool points and then on to stores. 
3

Utilizing Our Financial Strength 
Over the past five years, we have had annual sales growth and we have consistently generated positive operating profits and operating cash flows. Our healthy balance sheet and financial discipline has enabled us to be profitable while investing in our business. 
We are committed to a cash management strategy that maintains liquidity to adequately support the operation of the business, pursue our growth strategy and withstand unanticipated business volatility. We believe that cash generated from our operations, together with our current levels of cash and investments, as well as availability under our Credit Facility, are sufficient over the next 12 months and the foreseeable future to maintain our ongoing operations, support seasonal working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, repurchase common shares under our share repurchase program, and complete the Town Shoes acquisition.
Additional Information
Intellectual Property
We have registered a number of trademarks, service marks and domain names in the United States and internationally, including DSW®, DSW Shoe Warehouse® and DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse®. We have licensed our DSW Designer Shoe Warehouse trademark to Town Shoes and the Apparel Group. We also have registered trademarks through our acquisition of Ebuys including Apparel Save®, ShoeMetro®, ShoeMetro.com® and SM ShoeMetro®. We believe our trademarks and service marks, especially those related to the DSW concept, have significant value and are important to building our name recognition. To protect our brand identity, we have also protected the DSW trademark in several foreign countries. We also hold patents related to our unique store fixtures, which gives us greater efficiency in stocking and operating those stores that currently have the fixtures. We vigorously protect our patented fixture designs, as well as our packaging, private brand names, store design elements, marketing slogans and graphics. 
Associates
As of February 3, 2018, we employed approximately 12,000 associates. None of our associates are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We offer competitive wages, paid time off, comprehensive medical and dental insurance, vision care, company-paid and supplemental life insurance programs, associate-paid long-term disability and company-paid short-term disability insurance and a 401(k) plan to our full-time associates and some of our part-time associates. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our associates to be good.
Seasonality
Our business is subject to seasonal merchandise trends driven by the change in weather conditions and our customers' interest in new seasonal styles. New spring styles are primarily introduced in the first quarter and new fall styles are primarily introduced in the third quarter. 
Available Information
DSW Inc. electronically files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to such reports. The public may read and copy any materials that DSW Inc. files with the SEC at:
SEC Public Reference Room
100 F Street N.E. 
Washington, D.C. 20549 
The public may obtain information on the operation at the SEC Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about DSW Inc., including its reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, is available through DSW Inc.'s website at www.dswinc.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge through DSW Inc.'s website and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. 
4

Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:
DSW Inc.
Investor Relations
810 DSW Drive
Columbus, OH 43219
We have included our website addresses throughout this report as textual references only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.
