Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
--------+----------

Overview
 
Middlesex Water Company (Middlesex) was incorporated as a water utility company in 1897 and owns and operates regulated water utility and wastewater systems in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania. Middlesex also operates water and wastewater systems under contract on behalf of municipal and private clients in New Jersey and Delaware.
The terms “the Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” refer to Middlesex Water Company and its subsidiaries, including Tidewater Utilities, Inc. (Tidewater) and Tidewater’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, Southern Shores Water Company, LLC (Southern Shores) and White Marsh Environmental Systems, Inc. (White Marsh). The Company’s other subsidiaries are Pinelands Water Company (Pinelands Water) and Pinelands Wastewater Company (Pinelands Wastewater) (collectively, Pinelands), Utility Service Affiliates, Inc. (USA), Utility Service Affiliates (Perth Amboy) Inc., (USA-PA), Tidewater Environmental Services, Inc. (TESI) and Twin Lakes Utilities, Inc. (Twin Lakes).
 
The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1500 Ronson Road, Iselin, New Jersey 08830. Our telephone number is (732) 634-1500. Our website address is http://www.middlesexwater.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, reports and amendments filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).
Middlesex System 
 
The Middlesex System in New Jersey provides water services to approximately 61,000 retail customers, primarily in eastern Middlesex County, New Jersey and provides water under wholesale contracts to the City of Rahway, Townships of Edison and Marlboro, the Borough of Highland Park and the Old Bridge Municipal Utilities Authority. The Middlesex System treats, stores and distributes water for residential, commercial, industrial and fire protection purposes. The Middlesex System also provides water treatment and pumping services to the Township of East Brunswick under contract. The amount of water supply allocated to the Township of East Brunswick is granted directly to the Township by the New Jersey Water Supply Authority. The Middlesex System produced approximately 58% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
The Middlesex System’s retail customers are located in an area of approximately 55 square miles in Woodbridge Township, the City of South Amboy, the Boroughs of Metuchen and Carteret, portions of the Township of Edison and the Borough of South Plainfield in Middlesex County and, to a minor extent, a portion of the Township of Clark in Union County. Retail customers include a mix of residential customers, large industrial concerns and commercial and light industrial facilities. These customers are located in generally well-developed areas of central New Jersey.
 
The contract customers of the Middlesex System comprise an area of approximately 110 square miles with a population of approximately 219,000. Contract sales to the Townships of Edison and Marlboro, the City of Rahway and the Old Bridge Municipal Utilities Authority are supplemental to the water systems owned and operated by these customers. Middlesex is the sole source of water for the Borough of Highland Park and the Township of East Brunswick.
 
Middlesex provides water service to approximately 300 customers in Cumberland County, New Jersey. This system is referred to as Bayview, and is not physically interconnected with the Middlesex System. Bayview produced less than 1% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
2
Index

Tidewater System 
 
Tidewater, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary, Southern Shores, provides water services to approximately 45,000 retail customers for residential, commercial and fire protection purposes in approximately 400 separate communities in New Castle, Kent and Sussex Counties, Delaware. White Marsh is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tidewater that is unregulated as to rates and operates or maintains more than 55 water and/or wastewater systems under contracts that serve approximately 4,000 residential customers. White Marsh owns two commercial properties that are leased to Tidewater as its administrative office campus and its field operations center. The Tidewater System produced approximately 28% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
Utility Service Affiliates-Perth Amboy 
 
USA-PA operates the City of Perth Amboy, New Jersey’s (Perth Amboy) water treatment and distribution system and its wastewater collection system under a 20-year agreement, which expires in December 2018. USA-PA serves approximately 11,900 homes and businesses, most of which are served by both the water and wastewater systems. Under the agreement, USA-PA receives fixed fees, and may receive variable fees, based on customer revenue growth. Fixed fee revenues increase over the term of the 20-year contract based upon a schedule of rates. USA-PA produced approximately 8% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
In connection with the agreement with Perth Amboy, USA-PA entered into a subcontract with a wastewater operating company for the operation and maintenance of the Perth Amboy wastewater collection system. The subcontract provides for the sharing of certain fixed and variable fees and operating expenses and its term is concurrent with USA-PA’s contract with Perth Amboy.
 
Pinelands System 
 
Pinelands Water provides water services to approximately 2,500 residential customers in Burlington County, New Jersey. Pinelands Water produced less than 1% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues. Pinelands Water is not physically interconnected with the Middlesex System.
 
Pinelands Wastewater provides wastewater collection and treatment services to approximately 2,500 residential customers. Under contract, it also services one municipal wastewater system in Burlington County, New Jersey with approximately 200 residential customers. Pinelands Wastewater produced approximately 1% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
Utility Service Affiliates, Inc. 
 
USA operates the Borough of Avalon, New Jersey’s (Avalon) water utility, sewer utility and storm water system under a ten-year operations and maintenance contract expiring in 2022. USA serves approximately 6,200 Avalon homes and businesses, most of which are served by both the water and wastewater collection systems. In addition to performing day-to-day operations, USA is responsible for billing, collections, customer service, emergency responses and management of capital projects funded by Avalon.
 
USA also provides unregulated water and wastewater services under contract with several other smaller New Jersey municipalities.
 
Under a marketing agreement with HomeServe USA (HomeServe), USA offers residential customers in New Jersey and Delaware various water and wastewater related home maintenance programs. HomeServe is a leading national provider of such home maintenance service programs. USA receives a service fee for the billing, cash collection and other administrative matters associated with HomeServe’s service contracts. The agreement expires in 2021.
 
USA produced approximately 2% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
3
Index

TESI System
 
TESI provides wastewater collection and treatment services to approximately 3,500 residential retail customers in Sussex County, Delaware. TESI produced approximately 2% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
Twin Lakes System
 
Twin Lakes provides water services to approximately 120 residential customers in Shohola, Pennsylvania. Twin Lakes produced less than 1% of our 2017 consolidated operating revenues.
 
Financial Information
 
Consolidated operating revenues, operating income and net income are as follows:
 

 | (Thousands of Dollars) | 
-------------------+--------------------------+--------
 | Years Ended December 31, | 
 | 2017 | | 2016 | | | 2015
Operating Revenues | $ | 130,775 | | $ | 132,906 | | $ | 126,025
Operating Income | $ | 38,620 | | $ | 40,632 | | $ | 35,840 
Net Income | $ | 22,809 | | $ | 22,742 | | $ | 20,028 

 
Operating revenues were earned from the following sources:
 

 | Years Ended December 31, | 
--------------------+--------------------------+------
 | 2017 | | | 2016 | | 2015
Residential | | 48.8 | % | | 48.3 | % | 48.5 | %
Commercial | | 10.7 | | | 10.6 | | 10.4 | 
Industrial | | 6.7 | | | 6.9 | | 6.5 | 
Fire Protection | | 9.0 | | | 8.8 | | 8.9 | 
Contract Sales | | 10.4 | | | 11.7 | | 11.2 | 
Contract Operations | | 11.5 | | | 11.0 | | 11.5 | 
Other | | 2.9 | | | 2.7 | | 3.0 | 
Total | | 100.0 | % | | 100.0 | % | 100.0 | %

Water Supplies and Contracts 
 
Our New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania water supply systems are physically separate and are not interconnected. In New Jersey, the Pinelands System and Bayview System are not interconnected with the Middlesex System or each other. We believe we have adequate sources of water supply to meet the current service requirements of our present customers in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania.
Middlesex System 
 
Our Middlesex System, which produced approximately 14.4 billion gallons in 2017, obtains water from surface sources and wells (groundwater sources). In 2017, surface sources of water provided approximately 74% of the Middlesex System’s water supply, groundwater sources provided approximately 19% from 31 wells and the balance was purchased from a non-affiliated regulated water utility. The Middlesex System’s distribution storage facilities are used to supply water to customers at times of peak demand, outages and emergencies.
 
The principal source of surface water for the Middlesex System is the Delaware & Raritan Canal, which is owned by the State of New Jersey and operated as a water resource by the New Jersey Water Supply Authority 
  4
Index
(NJWSA). Middlesex is under contract with the NJWSA, which expires November 30, 2023, and provides for average purchases of 27.0 million gallons per day (mgd) of untreated water from the Delaware & Raritan Canal, augmented by the Round Valley/Spruce Run Reservoir System. The untreated surface water is pumped to, and treated at, the Middlesex Carl J. Olsen (CJO) Water Treatment Plant. Middlesex also has an agreement with a non-affiliated regulated water utility for the purchase of treated water. This agreement, which expires February 27, 2021, provides for minimum purchase of 3.0 mgd of treated water with provisions for additional purchases.
Tidewater System 
 
Our Tidewater System produced approximately 2.2 billion gallons in 2017 from 158 wells. Tidewater expects to submit applications to Delaware regulatory authorities for the approval of additional wells as growth, customer demand and water quality warrant. Tidewater augments its water production with annual minimum purchases of 15.0 million gallons of treated water under contract from the City of Dover, Delaware. Tidewater does not have a central water treatment facility for the nearly 400 separate communities it serves. As the number has grown, many of Tidewater’s individual systems have been interconnected, forming several regional systems that are served by multiple water treatment facilities. 
Pinelands Water System 
 
Water supply to our Pinelands Water System is derived from four wells which produced approximately 145.9 million gallons in 2017. The aggregate pumping capacity of the four wells is 2.2 mgd.
Pinelands Wastewater System 
 
The Pinelands Wastewater System discharges into the South Branch of the Rancocas Creek through a tertiary treatment plant that provides clarification, sedimentation, filtration and disinfection. The total capacity of the plant is 0.5 mgd, and the system treated approximately 91.3 million gallons in 2017.
Bayview System 
 
Water supply to Bayview customers is derived from two wells, which produced approximately 6.6 million gallons in 2017.
 
TESI System 
 
The TESI System is comprised of seven wastewater treatment systems in Sussex County, Delaware, which are not interconnected. The treatment plants provide clarification, sedimentation, and disinfection. The combined total treatment capacity of the plants is 0.7 mgd. The TESI System treated approximately 105.9 million gallons in 2017.
Twin Lakes System
 
Water supply to Twin Lakes’ customers is derived from one well, which produced approximately 15.0 million gallons in 2017.
 
Employees 
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of 315 employees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our employee relations are positive. Wages and benefits are reviewed annually and are considered competitive within both the industry and the regions where we operate.
Competition 
 
Our business in our franchised service areas is substantially free from direct competition with other public utilities, municipalities and other entities. However, our ability to provide contract water supply and wastewater services and operations and maintenance services that are not under the jurisdiction of a state public utility 
  5
Index
commission is subject to competition from other public utilities, municipalities and other entities. Although Tidewater and TESI have been granted exclusive franchises for each of their existing community water and wastewater systems, their ability to expand service areas can be affected by the Delaware Public Service Commission awarding franchises to other regulated water and wastewater utilities with whom we compete for such franchises and for projects.
Regulation 
 
Our rates charged to customers for water and wastewater services, the quality of the services we provide and certain other matters are regulated by the following state utility commissions (collectively, the Utility Commissions):

· | New Jersey-New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU)
--+--------------------------------------------------------


· | Delaware-Delaware Public Service Commission (DEPSC)
--+----------------------------------------------------


· | Pennsylvania-Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission (PAPUC)
--+--------------------------------------------------------------

 
Our USA, USA-PA and White Marsh subsidiaries are not regulated public utilities. However, they are subject to environmental regulation with respect to water quality and wastewater effluent quality to the extent such services are provided.
 
We are subject to environmental and water quality regulation by the following regulatory agencies (collectively, the Government Environmental Regulatory Agencies):
 
· | United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
--+----------------------------------------------------


· | New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) with respect to operations in New Jersey
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, the Delaware Department of Health and Social Services-Division of Public Health (DEDPH), and the Delaware River Basin Commission (DRBC) with respect to operations in Delaware
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) with respect to operations in Pennsylvania
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
In addition, our issuances of equity securities are subject to the prior approval of the NJBPU and require registration with the SEC. Our issuances of long-term debt securities are subject to the prior approval of the appropriate Utility Commissions.
 
Regulation of Rates and Services 
 
For regulated rate setting purposes, we account separately for operations in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania to facilitate independent rate setting by the applicable Utility Commissions.
 
In determining our regulated utility rates, the respective Utility Commissions consider the revenue, expenses, rate base of property used and useful in providing service to the public and a fair rate of return on investments within their separate jurisdictions. Rate determinations by the respective Utility Commissions do not guarantee achievement to us of specific rates of return for our New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania regulated utility operations. Thus, we may not achieve the stated rates of return authorized by the Utility Commissions. In addition, there can be no assurance that any future rate increases will be granted or, if granted, that they will be in the amounts requested.
 
Middlesex Rate Matters
 
In October 2017, Middlesex filed a petition with the NJBPU seeking permission to increase base water rates by approximately $15.3 million per year. The request was necessitated by capital infrastructure investments Middlesex has made, or has committed to make, to drinking water infrastructure since the last filing in New Jersey in 2015 as well as increased operations and maintenance costs. We cannot predict when and whether the NJBPU will ultimately approve, deny, or reduce the amount of the request. Under New Jersey statute, the NJBPU must render a decision within nine months of filing a petition.
 
6
Index
In October 2017, the NJBPU approved Middlesex’s petition to reset its Purchased Water Adjustment Clause (PWAC) tariff rate to recover additional annual costs of $1.2 million, primarily for the purchase of untreated water from the New Jersey Water Supply Authority. A PWAC is a rate mechanism that allows for the recovery of increased purchased water costs between base rate case filings. The PWAC is reset to zero once those increased costs are included in base rates. The reset PWAC tariff rate became effective on November 1, 2017.
 
In August 2015, Middlesex implemented a $5.0 million NJBPU-approved rate increase. The rate increase was needed to recover increased costs and lost customer revenues, as well as a return on invested capital in rate base of $219.0 million, based on a return on equity of 9.75%.
 
Tidewater Rate Matters
 
Effective January 1, 2018, Tidewater increased its DEPSC-approved Distribution System Improvement Charge rate, which is expected to generate revenues of approximately $0.4 million annually.
 
Pinelands Rate Matters
 
In April 2016, the NJBPU approved $0.2 million and $0.1 million of increases, respectively, in Pinelands Water and Pinelands Wastewater’s annual base rates, effective May 7, 2016. The rate increases were necessitated by capital infrastructure investments by the companies, increased operations and maintenance costs and lower non-fixed fee revenues. The Pinelands Water base water rate increase was phased-in between 2016 and 2017.
Southern Shores Rate Matters
 
Under the terms of a multi-year DEPSC-approved agreement expiring in 2020, customer rates will increase on January 1st of each year to generate additional annual revenue of $0.1 million with each increase.
 
Twin Lakes Rate Matters
 
In June 2016, the PAPUC approved a $0.1 million increase in Twin Lakes’ base water rates. The rate increase was necessitated by capital infrastructure investments Twin Lakes has made, or committed to make, and increased operations and maintenance costs. The rate increase will be phased in with the final phase implemented subsequent to specific capital investments being placed in service.
Future Rate Filings
 
Management monitors the need for rate relief for our regulated subsidiaries on an ongoing basis. When capital improvements (both made and planned) and/or increases in operation and maintenance costs require rate relief, base rate increase requests are expeditiously filed with those subsidiaries’ Utility Commissions.
Water and Wastewater Quality and Environmental Regulations 
 
Government environmental regulatory agencies regulate our operations in New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania with respect to water supply, treatment and distribution systems and the quality of the water.  They also regulate our operations with respect to wastewater collection, treatment and disposal.
 
Regulations relating to water quality require us to perform tests to ensure our water meets state and federal quality requirements. In addition, government environmental regulatory agencies continuously review current regulations governing the limits of certain organic compounds found in the water as byproducts of the treatment process. We participate in industry-related research to identify the various types of technology that might reduce the level of organic, inorganic and synthetic compounds found in water. The cost to water utilities to comply with the proposed water quality standards depends in part on the limits set in the regulations and on the method selected to treat the water to the required standards. We regularly test our water to determine compliance with existing required government environmental regulatory agencies’ water quality standards.
 
Treatment of groundwater in our Middlesex System is by chlorination for primary disinfection purposes. In addition, at certain locations, air stripping is used for removal of volatile organic compounds.
 
7
Index
Surface water treatment in our Middlesex System is by conventional treatment; coagulation, sedimentation and filtration. The treatment process includes pH adjustment, chlorination for disinfection, and corrosion control for the distribution system.
 
Treatment of groundwater in our Tidewater System is by chlorination for disinfection purposes and, in some cases, pH correction and filtration for nitrate and iron removal and granular activated carbon filtration for organics removal. Chloramination is used for final disinfection at Southern Shores.
 
Treatment of groundwater in the Pinelands Water, Bayview and Twin Lakes Systems (primary disinfection only) is performed at individual well sites.
 
Treatment of wastewater in the Pinelands Wastewater and TESI Systems includes rotating biological contactors. Membrane bioreactors, sequential batch reactors and lagoon treatment coupled with spray irrigation are also utilized in the TESI System. 
 
The NJDEP, DEDPH and PADEP monitor our activities and review the results of water quality tests that are performed for adherence to applicable regulations. Other applicable regulations include the Federal Lead and Copper Rule, the Federal Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Federal Total Coliform Rule and regulations for maximum contaminant levels established for various volatile organic compounds.
 
Seasonality
 
Customer demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than other times of the year due primarily to additional consumption of water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand may vary with temperature and rainfall timing and overall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the customer demand for our water may decrease and therefore, adversely affect our revenues.
Management
 This table lists information concerning our executive management team:
 
Name | Age | Principal Position(s) 
---------------------+-----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dennis W. Doll | 59 | President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors
A. Bruce O’Connor | 59 | Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer 
Richard M. Risoldi | 61 | Vice President-Operations and Chief Operating Officer 
Jay L. Kooper | 45 | Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary 
Bernadette M. Sohler | 57 | Vice President-Corporate Affairs 
Lorrie B. Ginegaw | 42 | Vice President–Human Resources 
Gerard L. Esposito | 66 | President, Tidewater Utilities, Inc. 

 
Dennis W. Doll – Mr. Doll joined the Company in 2004 as Executive Vice President and was named President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Middlesex effective January 1, 2006. In May 2010, he was elected Chairman of the Board.  He is also Chairman for all subsidiaries of Middlesex.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Doll had been employed in various executive leadership roles in the regulated water utility business since 1985. Mr. Doll also serves as a volunteer Director on selected non-profit utility industry-related Boards including the New Jersey Utilities Association (Past Chairman), The Water Research Foundation (presently Co-Vice Chairman), the National Association of Water Companies (Past President) and Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) of Middlesex County. Mr. Doll further serves as a Director of Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp. (OTCQB: HMMR); an alternative telecommunications carrier providing high capacity broadband service through a wireless access network.
 
8
Index
A. Bruce O’Connor – Mr. O’Connor, a Certified Public Accountant, joined the Company in 1990 and was named Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996 and Treasurer in 2014. He is Treasurer and a Director of Tidewater, USA, White Marsh and TESI. He is Vice President, Treasurer and a Director of Pinelands Water, USA-PA, Pinelands Wastewater and Twin Lakes.
Richard M. Risoldi – Mr. Risoldi joined the Company in 1989 as Director of Production. He was appointed Assistant Vice President of Operations in 2003. He was named Vice President-Subsidiary Operations in May 2004. In January 2010, he was named Vice President – Operations and Chief Operating Officer. He is a Director of Tidewater, White Marsh and TESI. He also serves as a Director and President of Pinelands Water, USA, USA-PA, Pinelands Wastewater and Twin Lakes.
Jay L. Kooper – Mr. Kooper joined the Company in March 2014 as Vice President and General Counsel and serves as Secretary for the Company and all subsidiaries. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kooper held various positions in private and public entities as well as in private law practice, representing electric, gas, water, wastewater, telephone and cable companies as well as municipalities and private clients before 17 state public utility commissions and legislatures, federal agencies and federal and state appellate courts.  Mr. Kooper serves as a volunteer director on selected non-profit Boards in New Jersey, is the Chair of the National Association of Water Companies’ New Jersey Chapter, and currently serves as the Chair of the New Jersey State Bar Association’s Public Utility Law Section.
Bernadette M. Sohler – Ms. Sohler joined the Company in 1994, was named Director of Communications in 2003 and promoted to Vice President-Corporate Affairs in March 2007. She also serves as Vice President of USA. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Sohler held marketing and public relations management positions in the financial services industry. Ms. Sohler serves as a volunteer director on area Chambers of Commerce and several non-profit Boards, is the Chair of the New Jersey Utilities Association’s Communications Committee and is a member of the American Water Works Association and the National Investor Relations Institute.
Lorrie B. Ginegaw – Ms. Ginegaw joined Tidewater in 2004. In September 2005, Ms. Ginegaw was promoted to Human Resources Manager. In May 2007, Ms. Ginegaw was promoted to Director of Human Resources for Middlesex. In March 2012, Ms. Ginegaw was named Vice President-Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Ginegaw worked in various human resources positions in the healthcare and transportation/logistics industries. She is a member of the New Jersey Utilities Association’s Human Resources Committee.
Gerard L. Esposito – Mr. Esposito joined Tidewater in 1998 as Executive Vice President. He was named President of Tidewater and White Marsh in 2003 and President of TESI in January 2005. Prior to joining the Company he worked in various executive positions for Delaware environmental protection and water quality governmental agencies. He is a Director of Tidewater, White Marsh and TESI. Mr. Esposito is a volunteer Director on selected Delaware non-profit, government, and professional Boards, including the Delaware Solid Waste Authority, which he chairs, Port of Wilmington, Delaware Workforce Investment Board, and the University of Delaware Sea Grant Advisory Council, which he chairs.
