Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS

Our Company
Shenandoah Telecommunications Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) provide wireless personal communications service (“PCS”) under the Sprint brand, and telephone service, cable television, unregulated communications equipment sales and services, and internet access under the Shentel brand.  In addition, the Company operates an interstate fiber optic network and leases its owned cell site towers to both affiliates and non-affiliated third-party wireless service providers. The Company’s reportable segments include: Wireless, Cable, Wireline and Other. See Note 16, Segment Reporting, in our consolidated financial statements for further information.
Pursuant to a management agreement with Sprint and its related parties (collectively, “Sprint”), the Company has been the exclusive Sprint PCS Affiliate providing wireless mobility communications network products and services on the 800 MHz, 1900 MHz and 2.5 GHz spectrum ranges in a multi-state area covering large portions of central and western Virginia, south-central Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and portions of Maryland, North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio. The Company is licensed to use the Sprint brand name in this territory, and operates its network under the Sprint radio spectrum license. 
Description of Business
Wireless
Since 1995, the Wireless operations have provided personal communications services through a digital wireless telephone and data network through a Management Agreement with Sprint. The Company currently provides service in a multi-state area covering large portions of central and western Virginia, south-central Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and portions of Maryland, North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio ("Sprint Affiliate Area").  The current Sprint Affiliate Area covers approximately 5.3 million POPS, ("Covered POPS").  Under this agreement, the Company is the exclusive provider of wireless services using the 800 megahertz (MHz), 1900 megahertz (MHz) and 2.5 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum ranges.  The Company provided network service to 736,597 postpaid PCS Sprint subscribers at December 31, 2017, representing an increase of 2% compared with December 31, 2016.  The Company provided service to 225,822 prepaid wireless Sprint subscribers at December 31, 2017, representing an increase of 9% compared to December 31, 2016. Of the Company’s total consolidated operating revenues, approximately 72% in 2017, 69% in 2016 and 56% in 2015 were generated by or through Sprint and its customers using the Company's portion of Sprint’s nationwide network in the Wireless operations.  No other customer relationship generated more than 10% of the Company’s total operating revenues in 2017, 2016 or 2015.
Under the Sprint agreements, Sprint provides the Company significant support services, such as customer service, billing, collections, long distance, national network operations support, inventory logistics support, use of the Sprint brand names, national advertising, national distribution and product development.
The Company’s wireless revenue is variable based on billed revenues to Sprint’s customers in our affiliate area less applicable fees retained by Sprint. Sprint retains an 8% Management Fee and an 8.6% Net Service Fee on postpaid revenues and a 6% Management Fee on prepaid wireless revenues. For postpaid, the Company is also charged for the costs of subsidized handsets sold through Sprint’s national channels as well as commissions paid by Sprint to third-party resellers in our service territory.  Sprint also charges the Company separately to acquire and support prepaid customers.  These charges are calculated based on Sprint’s national averages for its prepaid programs, and are billed per user or per gross additional customer, as appropriate.
4

The Company amended its agreements with Sprint, effective January 1, 2016. The Net Service Fee was reduced from 14.0% to 8.6%, and certain costs and revenues previously included within the Net Service Fee were broken out of the Net Service Fee and are separately settled.  Separately settled items consist primarily of revenues associated with Sprint’s wholesale subscribers’ use of our network and net travel revenue. The Net Service Fee was 14.0% for 2015.
Under our amended affiliate agreement, Sprint agreed to waive the Management Fees charged on both postpaid and prepaid revenues, up to approximately $4.2 million per month, until the total amount waived reaches approximately $255.6 million, which is expected to occur in 2022. See Note 3, Business Combinations and Acquisitions, and Note 9, Goodwill & Intangible Assets, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.
Cable
The Cable operations provide video, internet and voice services to customers in franchise areas covering portions of Virginia, West Virginia and western Maryland, and leases fiber optic facilities throughout its service area.
The Company has acquired several cable networks since 2008, and as of December 31, 2017, the Company has upgraded all of the cable networks acquired in these transactions in order to offer robust video, high speed internet and telephone services throughout its territory.  Most of these markets served in the Cable operations are connected by a fiber network of 3,356 miles, which interconnects with the Wireline operations' 2,073 mile fiber network.
There were 133,086 cable revenue generating units at December 31, 2017, an increase of 0.5% compared with December 31, 2016.  A revenue generating unit consists of each separate service (video, voice and internet) subscribed to by a customer.
Wireline
The Wireline operations provide regulated and unregulated voice services, DSL internet access, cable modem and long distance access services throughout Shenandoah County and portions of Rockingham, Frederick, Warren and Augusta counties, in Virginia. Wireline also provides video services in portions of Shenandoah County, and leases fiber optic facilities throughout the northern Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, northern Virginia and adjacent areas north along the Interstate 81 corridor through West Virginia, Maryland and portions of Pennsylvania.
Wireline provided local telephone services to 17,933 customers as of December 31, 2017, representing a decrease of 2.8% compared with the December 31, 2016, primarily in Shenandoah County and small service areas in Rockingham, Frederick, Warren, and Augusta counties in Virginia.  The Wireline operations provide access for interexchange carriers to the local exchange network and switching for voice products offered through the Cable segment.  Wireline has a 20 percent ownership interest in Valley Network Partnership (“ValleyNet”), which offers fiber network facility capacity to business customers and other telecommunications providers in western, central, and northern Virginia, as well as the Interstate 81 corridor from Johnson City, Tennessee to Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
The Wireline operations also provided video services to 5,019 customers and high speed data services to 2,105 customers through its own coaxial network, located in Shenandoah County, Virginia, as of December 31, 2017.  
Additionally, the Wireline operations also provides the following services:

• | Internet service has 11,559 digital subscriber line ("DSL") customers and 1,001 dedicated internet access customers at December 31, 2017. DSL service is available to all customers in the Company’s regulated telephone service area. 


• | Operation of the Maryland, West Virginia and Pennsylvania portions of a fiber optic network along the Interstate 81 corridor. The fiber optic network extends south from Harrisonburg, Virginia, through Covington, Virginia, then westward to Charleston, West Virginia. This extension of our fiber network connects to and supports the Company’s wireless business, and the provisioning of facility leases of fiber optic capacity to end users, in these areas. 


• | Resale of long distance service for calls placed to locations outside the regulated telephone service area by telephone customers. There were 9,078 long distance customers at December 31, 2017. 

5


• | Internet access to Enterprise customers and facility leases of owned fiber optic capacity in the northern Shenandoah Valley, in surrounding areas, along Interstate 81 into Pennsylvania, and into Herndon, Virginia.

Other
Other provides investing and management services to the Company's subsidiaries.
Competition
The telecommunications industry is highly competitive.  We compete primarily on the basis of the price, availability, reliability, variety and quality of our offerings and on the quality of our customer service.  Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to maintain high-quality services at prices competitive with those charged by our competitors.  In particular, price competition in the integrated telecommunications services markets generally has been intense and is expected to continue.  Our competitors include, among others, larger providers such as AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., T-Mobile USA, Inc., U.S. Cellular Corp., CenturyLink, Inc., Frontier Communications Corp., DISH Network Corporation, DIRECTV, and various other smaller competitive service providers.  Our primary competitors have substantially greater infrastructure, financial, personnel, technical, marketing and other resources, larger numbers of established customers and more prominent name recognition than the Company.
In our cable operations where we provide video services, we also compete in the provision of telephone and high speed data services against the incumbent local telephone company.  Incumbent local telephone carriers enjoy substantial competitive advantages arising from their historical monopoly position in the local telephone market, including pre-existing customer relationships with virtually all end-users.
Competition is intense in the wireless communications industry.  Competition has caused the market prices for wireless products and services to decrease. This has resulted in some carriers introducing pricing plans that are structurally different and often more aggressively priced than in the past. Wireless providers are upgrading their wireless services to better accommodate real-time and downloadable audio and video content as well as Internet browsing capabilities and other services. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless industry.
Competition is also intense and growing in the market for video services. Incumbent cable television companies, which have historically provided video service, face competition from direct broadcast satellite providers, on-line video services, such as NetFlix, Hulu, and Amazon, and from large wireline providers of telecommunications services (such as Verizon, CenturyLink, Frontier and AT&T) which have upgraded their networks to provide video services in addition to voice and high-speed Internet access services. These entities are large and have substantially greater infrastructure, financial, personnel, technical, marketing and other resources, larger numbers of established customers and more prominent name recognition than the Company. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on the extent to which our service offerings overlap with these entities, and on our ability to anticipate and respond to the competitive forces affecting the market for video and other services.
A continuing trend toward consolidation, mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could also increase the level of competition we face by further strengthening our competitors.
Regulation
Our operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”), the Virginia State Corporation Commission (“VSCC”), the West Virginia Public Service Commission, the Maryland Public Service Commission, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the Kentucky Public Service Commission and other federal, state, and local governmental agencies.  The laws governing these agencies, and the regulations and policies that they administer, are subject to constant review and revision, and some of these changes could have material impacts on our revenues and expenses.
Regulation of Wireless Operations
We operate our wireless business using radio spectrum made available by Sprint under the Sprint Management Agreement.  Our wireless business is directly or indirectly subject to, or affected by, a number of regulations and 
6

requirements of the FCC and other governmental authorities that apply to providers of commercial mobile radio services (“CMRS”).
Interconnection. Federal law and FCC regulations impose certain obligations on CMRS providers to interconnect their networks with other telecommunications providers (either directly or indirectly) and to enter into interconnection agreements (“ICAs”) with certain types of telecommunications providers.  Interconnection agreements typically are negotiated on a statewide basis and are subject to state approval.  If an agreement cannot be reached, parties to interconnection negotiations can submit unresolved issues to federal or state regulators for arbitration.  In addition, FCC regulations previously required that local exchange carriers (“LECs”) and CMRS providers establish reciprocal compensation arrangements for the termination of traffic to one another.  Disputes regarding intercarrier compensation can be brought in a number of forums (depending on the nature and jurisdiction of the dispute) including state public utility commissions (“PUCs”), FCC and the courts.  The Company does not presently have any material interconnection or intercarrier compensation disputes with respect to its wireless operations.
On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a report and order which comprehensively reformed and modernized the agency’s intercarrier compensation (“ICC”) rules governing the telecommunications industry.  Under the current FCC regime, since December 29, 2011, local traffic between CMRS providers and most LECs must be compensated pursuant to a default bill-and-keep framework if there was no pre-existing agreement between the CMRS provider and the LEC.  A federal appeals court has affirmed the FCC’s report and order.  Additionally, the FCC is considering a number of petitions for declaratory ruling and other proceedings regarding disputes among carriers relating to interconnection payment obligations.  During 2017 the FCC initiated a further proceeding to consider whether additional changes to interconnection obligations are needed, including how and where companies interconnect their networks with the networks of other providers. Resolution of these proceedings and any additional FCC rules regarding interconnection could directly affect us in the future.  Interconnection costs represent a significant expense item for us and any significant changes in the intercarrier compensation scheme may have a material impact on our business.  We are unable to determine with any certainty at this time whether any such changes would be beneficial to or detrimental to our wireless operations.
On December 18, 2014 the FCC issued a declaratory ruling which provides additional guidance concerning how the agency will evaluate the reasonableness of data roaming agreements.  The agency clarified that it will consider the reasonableness of data roaming rates based upon, in part, whether such rates exceed retail, international and resale rates, as well as how such rates compare to other providers’ rates.  The ruling also clarifies other aspects of the FCC’s 2011 data roaming order concerning the appropriate presumptions applied to certain contract terms and the inclusion of build-out terms when considering the reasonableness of roaming rates and terms.  The ruling is expected to provide improved negotiating leverage to Sprint, and other providers, in negotiating new data roaming agreements with AT&T and Verizon.   It is unclear whether such leverage will result in lower data roaming rates for Sprint, or whether such reduced rates will accrue to the benefit of our operations.  There is also a possibility that the ruling could provide a basis for smaller wireless providers to seek more beneficial terms in their roaming agreements with Sprint, which may impact roaming costs in our territory.
Universal Service Contribution Requirements. Consistent with the terms of our Management Agreements, Sprint is required to contribute to the federal universal service fund (the “USF”) based in part on the revenues it receives in connection with our wireless operations. The purpose of this fund is to subsidize telecommunications and broadband services in rural areas, for low-income consumers and for schools, libraries and rural healthcare facilities.  Sprint is permitted to, and does, pass through these mandated payments as surcharges paid by its subscribers.
Transfers, Assignments and Changes of Control of Spectrum Licenses.  The FCC must give prior approval to the assignment of ownership or control of a spectrum license, as well as transfers involving substantial changes in such ownership or control.  The FCC also requires licensees to maintain effective working control over their licenses.  Our Sprint Affiliate Agreement reflects an alliance that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum.  If the FCC were to determine that the Sprint Affiliate Agreement should be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint to use our best efforts to modify the agreements as necessary to cause the agreements to comply with applicable law and to preserve to the extent possible the economic arrangements set forth in the agreements.  If the agreements cannot be modified, the agreements may be terminated pursuant to their terms.  The FCC could also impose sanctions on the Company for failure to meet these requirements.
7

Spectrum licenses are granted for ten-year terms.  Sprint’s spectrum licenses for our service area are scheduled to expire on various dates from the date of publication of this disclosure through June 2025.  Licensees have an expectation of license renewal if they have provided “substantial” service during its past license terms, and have “substantially” complied with FCC rules and policies, and with the Communications Act of 1934.  All of the PCS licenses used in our wireless business have been successfully renewed since their initial grant.
Construction and Operation of Wireless Facilities. Wireless systems must comply with certain FCC and Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) regulations regarding the registration, siting, marking, lighting and construction of transmitter towers and antennas.  The FCC also requires that aggregate radio frequency emissions from every site meet certain standards.  These regulations affect site selection for new network build-outs and may increase the costs of improving our network.  We cannot predict what impact the costs and delays from these regulations could have on our operations.
The construction of new towers, and in some cases the modification of existing towers, may also be subject to environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (“NEPA”), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impacts of their decisions under some circumstances.  FCC regulations implementing NEPA place responsibility on each applicant to investigate any potential environmental effects of a proposed operation, including health effects relating to radio frequency emissions, and impacts on endangered species such as certain migratory birds, and to disclose any significant effects on the environment to the agency prior to commencing construction.  In the event that the FCC determines that a proposed tower would have a significant environmental impact, the FCC would require preparation of an environmental impact statement, which would be subject to public comment. 
In addition, tower construction is subject to regulations implementing the National Historic Preservation Act.  Compliance with FAA, environmental or historic preservation requirements could significantly delay or prevent the registration or construction of a particular tower or make tower construction more costly.  On July 15, 2016, Congress enacted new tower marking requirements for certain towers located in rural areas, which may increase our operational costs. In some jurisdictions, local laws or regulations may impose similar requirements. 
Wireless Facilities Siting. States and localities are authorized to engage in forms of regulation, including zoning and land-use regulation, which may affect our ability to select and modify sites for wireless facilities. States and localities may not engage in forms of regulation that effectively prohibit the provision of wireless services, discriminate among functionally equivalent services or regulate the placement, construction or operation of wireless facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions. Courts and the FCC are routinely asked to review whether state and local zoning and land-use actions should be preempted by federal law, and the FCC also is routinely asked to consider other issues affecting wireless facilities siting in other proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the effect they may have on us. 
Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.  The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) was enacted in 1994 to preserve electronic surveillance capabilities by law enforcement officials in the face of rapidly changing telecommunications technology.  CALEA requires telecommunications carriers and broadband providers, including the Company, to modify their equipment, facilities and services to allow for authorized electronic surveillance based on either industry or FCC standards.  Following adoption of interim standards and a lengthy rulemaking proceeding, including an appeal and remand proceeding, all carriers were required to be in compliance with the CALEA requirements as of June 30, 2002.  We are currently in compliance with the CALEA requirements.
Local Number Portability.   All covered CMRS providers, including the Company, are required to allow wireless customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when switching from one telecommunications carrier to another.  These rules are generally referred to as wireless local number portability (“LNP”).  The future volume of any porting requests, and the processing costs related thereto, may increase our operating costs in the future. We are currently in compliance with LNP requirements.  The FCC has selected a new Local Number Portability Administrator, and the transition to a new Local Number Portability Administrator may impact our ability to manage number porting and related tasks, or may result in additional costs related to the transition.
Number Pooling.  The FCC regulates the assignment and use of telephone numbers by wireless and other telecommunications carriers to preserve numbering resources.  CMRS providers in the top 100 markets are required to be capable of sharing blocks of 10,000 numbers among themselves in subsets of 1,000 numbers (“1000s-block 
8

number pooling”); the FCC considers state requests to implement 1000s-block number pooling in smaller markets on a case-by-case basis, and has granted such requests in the past.  In addition, all CMRS carriers, including those operating outside the top 100 markets, must be able to support roaming calls on their network placed by users with pooled numbers.  Wireless carriers must also maintain detailed records of the numbers they have used, subject to audit.  The pooling requirements may impose additional costs and increase operating expenses on us and limit our access to numbering resources. We are currently in compliance with the FCC number pooling requirements.
Telecommunications Relay Services (“TRS”). Federal law requires wireless service providers to take steps to enable the hearing impaired and other disabled persons to have reasonable access to wireless services.  The FCC has adopted rules and regulations implementing this requirement to which we are subject, and requires that we pay a regulatory assessment to support such telecommunications relay services for the disabled.  The Company is in compliance with these requirements.
Consumer Privacy. The Company is subject to various federal and state laws intended to protect the privacy of end-users who subscribe to the Company’s services.  For example, the FCC has regulations that place restrictions on the permissible uses that we can make of customer-specific information, known as Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”), received from subscribers, and that govern procedures for release of such information in order to prevent identity theft schemes.  Other laws impose criminal and other penalties for the violation of certain CPNI requirements and related privacy protections.
As a result of the FCC’s December 2017 decision to reclassify broadband Internet access service as an “information service,” the FTC has the authority to enforce against unfair or deceptive acts and practices, to protect the privacy of Internet service customers, including our use and disclosure of certain customer information. Although one court decision has raised questions regarding the extent of FTC jurisdiction over companies that offer both common carrier services as well as non-common carrier services, that decision has been stayed, pending review by the full Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
After the repeal of the FCC’s 2016 privacy rules through the Congressional Review Act, many states and local authorities have considered legislative or other actions that would impose additional restrictions on our ability to collect, use and disclose certain information. Despite language in the FCC’s December 2017 decision reclassifying broadband Internet access service as an “information service,” that preempts state and local privacy regulations that conflict with federal policy, we expect these state and local efforts to regulate online privacy to continue in 2018. Additionally, several state legislatures are considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business. There are also bills pending in both the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate that could impose new privacy and data security obligations. We cannot predict whether any of these efforts will be successful or preempted, or how new legislation and regulations, if any, would affect our business
Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security.  In the event of an information security breach, such rules may require consumer and government agency notification and may result in regulatory enforcement actions with the potential of monetary forfeitures.
In addition, restrictions exist, and new restrictions are considered from time to time by Congress, federal agencies and states, on the extent to which wireless customers may receive unsolicited telemarketing calls, text messages, junk e-mail or spam.  Congress, federal agencies and certain states also are considering, and may in the future consider imposing, additional requirements on entities that possess consumer information to protect the privacy of consumers.  The Company is required to file an annual certification of compliance with the FCC’s CPNI rules.  Complying with these requirements may impose costs on the Company or compel the Company to alter the way it provides or promotes its services.
Consumer Protection.  Many members of the wireless industry, including us, have voluntarily committed to comply with the Cellular Telecommunication and Internet Association ("CTIA") Consumer Code for Wireless Service, which includes consumer protection provisions regarding the content and format of bills; advance disclosures regarding rates, terms of service, contract provisions, and network coverage; and the right to terminate service after a trial period or after changes to contract provisions are implemented.  The FCC and/or certain state commissions have considered or are considering imposing additional consumer protection requirements upon wireless service providers, including billing-related disclosures and usage alerts, as well as the adoption of standards for responses to customers and limits on early termination fees.  On December 12, 2013, CTIA filed a letter with the FCC detailing voluntary commitments by large wireless providers, including Sprint, which will permit subscribers and former 
9

subscribers to unlock their mobile devices, subject to contract fulfillment time frames for postpaid plans, or after one year for prepaid plans.  The carriers have agreed to fully implement the voluntary commitments within 12 months of adoption.  Subsequently, on February 11, 2014, CTIA-The Wireless Association adopted six standards on mobile wireless device unlocking into the CTIA Consumer Code for Wireless Service.  Finally, on August 1, 2014, the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act was enacted to make it easier for consumers to change their cell phone service providers without paying for a new phone.  This new statute reverses a decision made by the Library of Congress in 2012 that said it was illegal for consumers to “unlock” their cell phones for use on other networks without their service provider’s permission. Adoption of these and other similar, consumer protection requirements could increase the expenses or decrease the revenue of the Company's wireless business.  Courts have also had, and in the future may continue to have, an effect on the extent to which matters pertaining to the content and format of wireless bills can be regulated at the state level.  Any further changes to these and similar requirements could increase our costs of doing business and our costs of acquiring and retaining customers.
Net Neutrality.  For information concerning the FCC’s non-discrimination requirements for wireless broadband providers, see the discussion under “Regulation of Wireline Operations - Broadband Services / Net Neutrality”.
Radio Frequency Emission from Handsets.  Some studies (and media reports) have suggested that radio frequency emissions from handsets, wireless data devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.  Most of the expert reviews conducted to date have concluded that the evidence does not support a finding of adverse health effects but that further research is appropriate.  Courts have dismissed a number of lawsuits filed against other wireless service operators and manufacturers, asserting claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from handsets and wireless data devices.  However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of other lawsuits, or general public concerns over these issues, will not have a material adverse effect on the wireless industry, including us.
Accessibility.  The FCC imposes obligations on telecommunications service providers and multi-channel video programming distributors ("MVPDs"), intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities are able to access and use telecommunications and video programming services and equipment.   FCC rules require telecommunications service providers, including wireless providers, to be capable of transmitting 911 calls from persons who are deaf, hard of hearing or speech disabled, including through text telephone ("TTY") capability over the public switched telephone network ("PSTN"), various forms of PSTN-based and internet protocol ("IP")-based TRS, and text-to-911 (where available).  The FCC recently amended its rules to allow wireless telecommunications service providers to transition to use of real time text ("RTT") in lieu of TTY technology for communications using wireless IP-based voice services. In addition, telecommunications services, including voice over internet protocol ("VoIP"), and advanced communications services ("ACS") (such as email and text messaging) must be accessible to and usable by disabled persons, including by ensuring that email and texts are compatible with commonly used screen readers, unless doing so is not achievable.  FCC rules require that customer support for covered telecommunications and ACS services (included website based) is accessible and also imposes extensive recordkeeping for both telecommunications services and ACS, and subject providers to significant penalties for non-compliance with accessibility requirements as well as for falsely certifying compliance with recordkeeping obligations. Existing FCC rules also require us to offer a minimum number of hearing aid-compatible (“HAC”) handsets to consumers.  The FCC recently proposed rules that would update technical specifications for HAC handsets and extend HAC compatibility requirements to VoIP handsets.  FCC rules also require video programming delivered on MVPD systems to be closed captioned unless exempt and require MVPDs to pass through captions to consumers and to take all steps needed to monitor and maintain equipment to ensure that captioning reaches the consumer intact. Video programming delivered over the Internet must be captioned if it was delivered previously on television with captions. An MVPD must also pass through audio description provided in broadcast and non-broadcast programming if it has the technical capability to do so, unless it is using the required technology for another purpose. FCC rules also require MVPDs to ensure that critical details about emergencies conveyed in video programming are accessible to persons with disabilities, and that video programming guides are accessible to persons who are blind or visually impaired. We cannot predict if or when additional changes will be made to the current FCC accessibility rules, or whether and how such changes will affect us. 
911 Services.  We are subject to FCC rules that require wireless carriers to make emergency 911 services available to their subscribers, including enhanced 911 services that convey the caller’s telephone number and detailed location information to emergency responders.  The FCC has also sought public comment to investigate further requirements regarding the accuracy of wireless location information transmitted during an emergency 911 call.  Additionally, the FCC adopted rules requiring all wireless carriers to support the ability of consumers to send text messages to 911 in 
10

all areas of the country where 911 Public Safety Answering Points (“PSAP”) are capable of receiving text messages.  Also, in May 2013, the FCC adopted rules which require CMRS providers to provide an automatic “bounce-back” text message when a subscriber attempts to send a text message to 911 in a location where text-to-911 is not available.  In August 2014, the FCC ordered that all CMRS and interconnected text providers must be capable of supporting text-to-911 by December 31, 2014.  Such covered text providers had until June 30, 2015, to begin delivering text-to-911 messages to PSAPs that have submitted requests for such delivery by December 31, 2014, unless otherwise agreed with the PSAP, and six months to begin delivery after any such request made after December 31, 2014.  We are not able to predict the effect that these, or any other, changes to the 911 service rules will have on our operations.
Regulation of Cable Television, Interconnected VoIP and Other Video Service Operations
We provide cable services to customers in franchise areas covering portions of Virginia, West Virginia and western Maryland.
The provision of cable service generally is subject to regulation by the FCC, and cable operators typically also must comply with the terms of the franchise agreement between the cable operator and the local franchising authority.  Some states, including Virginia and West Virginia, have enacted regulations and franchise provisions that also can affect certain aspects of a cable operator’s operations.
Pricing and Packaging.  Federal law limits cable rate regulation to communities that are not subject to “effective competition,” as defined by federal regulation.  In the absence of effective competition, federal law authorizes local franchising authorities to regulate the monthly rates charged for the minimum level of video programming service (the “basic service tier”) and for the installation, sale and lease of equipment used by end users to receive the basic service tier, but no additional cable offerings.  None of the local franchise authorities presently regulate our rates. Congress and the FCC from time to time have considered imposing new pricing and packaging restrictions on cable operators, including possible requirements to unbundle existing service tiers and provide cable programming on an a la carte basis.  We cannot predict whether or when such new pricing and packaging restrictions may be imposed on us or what effect they would have on our ability to provide cable service. 
Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent. Local broadcast television stations can require a cable operator to carry their signals pursuant to federal “must-carry” requirements. Alternatively, local television stations may require that a cable operator obtain “retransmission consent” for carriage of the station’s signal, which can enable a popular local television station to obtain concessions from the cable operator for the right to carry the station’s signal. Although some local television stations today are carried by cable operators under the must-carry obligation, popular broadcast network affiliated stations, such as ABC, CBS, FOX, CW and NBC, typically are carried pursuant to retransmission consent agreements. The retransmission consent costs charged by broadcast networks affiliate stations are increasing rapidly. We cannot predict the extent to which such retransmission consent costs may increase in the future or the effect such cost increases may have on our ability to provide cable service. 
Copyright Fees. Cable operators pay compulsory copyright fees, in addition to possible retransmission consent fees, to retransmit broadcast programming.  Although the cable compulsory copyright license has been in place for 40 years, there have been legislative and regulatory proposals to replace the compulsory license with privately negotiated licenses. We cannot predict whether such proposals will be enacted and how they might affect our business. 
Programming Costs.  Satellite-delivered cable programming, such as ESPN, HBO and the Discovery Channel, is not subject to must-carry/retransmission consent regulations or a compulsory copyright license.  The Company negotiates directly or through the National Cable Television Cooperative (“NCTC”) with satellite-delivered cable programmers for the right to carry their programming.  The cost of acquiring the right to carry satellite-delivered cable programming can increase as the popularity of such programming increases, or as programmers demand rate increases.  
Franchise Matters. Cable operators generally must apply for and obtain non-exclusive franchises from local or state franchising authorities before providing video service.  The terms and conditions of franchises vary among jurisdictions, but franchises generally last for a fixed term and are subject to renewal, require the cable operator to collect a franchise fee of as much as 5% of the cable operator’s gross revenue from video services, and contain certain service quality and customer service obligations.  A significant number of states today have processes in place for obtaining state-wide franchises, and legislation has been introduced from time to time in Congress and in 
11

various states, including those in which we provide some form of video service, that would require the implementation of state-wide franchising processes.  Although we cannot predict whether state-wide franchising will become ubiquitous, it would, if implemented, likely lower barriers to entry and increase competition in the marketplace for video services.  In 2006, the FCC adopted new rules governing the terms and conditions under which franchising authorities can award franchises to entities that compete against incumbent cable service operators.  These rules generally limit the ability of franchising authorities to impose certain requirements on and extract certain concessions from new entrants.  Also in 2006, Virginia adopted a new franchising statute.  This statute largely leaves franchising responsibility in the hands of local municipalities and counties, but it governs the local government entities’ award of such franchises and their conduct of franchise negotiations.  We cannot predict the extent to which these rules and other developments will accelerate the pace of new entry into the video market or the effect, if any, they may have on our cable operations. 
Leased Access/PEG. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to require cable operators to set aside the use of channels for public, education and governmental access (“PEG”) programming.  The Communications Act also requires certain cable systems to make available a portion of their capacity for commercial leased access by third parties that would compete with programming offered on other channels of the cable system.  Increases in the amount of required commercial leased access or PEG access usage could reduce the number of channels available to us to provide other types of programming to subscribers. 
Pole Attachments. The Communications Act requires most utilities to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation. In 2011 and again in 2015, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment. The 2011 order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but generally strengthens the cable industry’s ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions. Additionally, the 2011 order reduces the federal rate formula previously applicable to “telecommunications” attachments to closely approximate the rate formula applicable to “cable” attachments. The 2015 order, which is currently on appeal by utility pole owners, continues that rate reconciliation, effectively closing the remaining “loophole” that potentially allowed for significantly higher rates for telecommunications attachments in certain scenarios, and minimizing the rate consequences of any of our services being deemed “telecommunications” for pole attachment purposes. Neither the 2011 order nor the 2015 order directly affect the rate in states that self-regulate (rather than allow the FCC to regulate) pole rates, but many of those states have substantially the same rate for cable and telecommunications attachments. 
Some municipalities have enacted “one-touch” make-ready pole attachment ordinances, which permit third parties to alter components of our network attached to utility poles in ways that could adversely affect our businesses. Some of these ordinances have been challenged with differing results. In 2017, the FCC initiated a rulemaking that considers amending its pole attachment rules to permit a “one-touch” make-ready-like process for the poles within its jurisdiction. If adopted, these rules could have a similar effect as the municipal one-touch make-ready ordinances and adversely affect our businesses.
Broadband Services. For information concerning the regulation of Broadband services, see the related discussions under “Regulation of Wireline Operations”.
Net Neutrality.  For information concerning the FCC’s non-discrimination requirements for fixed broadband providers, see the discussion under “Regulation of Wireline Operations - Broadband Services / Net Neutrality”.
Privacy. For information concerning the privacy obligations of our Broadband service, see the discussion under “Regulation of Wireless Operations - Consumer Privacy.”
VoIP Services.  We provide voice communications services over our cable network utilizing interconnected VoIP technology and service arrangements.  Although similar to telephone service in some ways, our VoIP service arrangement utilizes different technology and is subject to many of the same rules and regulations applicable to traditional telephone service.  The FCC order adopted on October 27, 2011, established rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers and VoIP providers. In May 2014 the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit upheld the FCC order reducing intercarrier compensation payments.  The rules are likely to substantially decrease intercarrier compensation payments we may have otherwise received over a multi-year period. The decreases over the multi-year transition will affect both the amounts that we pay to telecommunications carriers and the amounts that we receive from other carriers. The schedule and magnitude of these decreases, however, will vary depending on the nature of the carriers and the 
12

telephone traffic at issue. We cannot yet predict with certainty the impact on our revenues and expenses for voice services at particular times over this multi-year period.
Further regulatory changes are being considered that could impact our VoIP service.  The FCC and state regulatory authorities are considering, for example, whether certain common carrier regulations traditionally applied to incumbent local exchange carriers should be modified or reduced, and the extent to which common carrier requirements should be extended to VoIP providers.  The FCC has already determined that certain providers of voice services using Internet Protocol technology must comply with requirements relating to 911 emergency services, CALEA, USF contribution, customer privacy and CPNI issues, number portability, network outage, rural call completion, disability access, battery backup, regulatory fees, and discontinuance of service.  In March 2007, a federal appeals court affirmed the FCC’s decision concerning federal regulation of certain VoIP services, but declined to specifically find that VoIP service provided by cable companies, such as we provide, should be regulated only at the federal level.  As a result, certain states, including West Virginia, began proceedings to subject cable VoIP services to state-level regulation.  Although the West Virginia proceeding concluded without any new state-level regulation, it is difficult to predict whether it, or other state regulators, will continue to attempt to regulate our VoIP service.  We have registered with, or obtained certificates or authorizations from, the FCC and the state regulatory authorities in those states in which we offer competitive voice services in order to ensure the continuity of our services and to maintain needed network interconnection arrangements. It is not clear how the FCC Order to reclassify wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services, and pursuant to Section 706, will affect the regulatory status of our VoIP services.  Further, it is also unclear whether and how these and other ongoing regulatory matters ultimately will be resolved.
Prospective competitors of Shenandoah Cable, a subsidiary of the Company, may also receive disbursements from the USF.  Some of those competitors have requested USF support under the Connect America Fund to build broadband facilities in areas already served by Shenandoah Cable.  Although Shenandoah Cable has opposed such requests where we offer service, we cannot predict whether the FCC or another agency will grant such requests or otherwise fund broadband service in areas already served by the company.
Other Issues. Our ability to provide cable service may be affected by a wide range of additional regulatory and related issues, including FCC regulations pertaining to licensing of systems and facilities, set-top boxes, equipment compatibility, program exclusivity blackouts, advertising, public files, accessibility to persons with disabilities, emergency alerts, pole attachments, equal employment opportunity, privacy, consumer protection, and technical standards. In addition, proceedings before the FCC and state regulatory bodies have examined the rates that cable operators must pay to use utility poles and conduits, and other terms and conditions of pole attachment agreements. Pole attachment costs are significant and changes in pole attachment regulation and the resulting rates could have an adverse impact on our operations. We cannot predict the nature and pace of these and other developments or the effect they may have on our operations.
Regulation of Wireline Operations
As an incumbent local exchange carrier ("ILEC"), Shenandoah Telephone Company’s (“Shenandoah Telephone”) operations are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies.
State Regulation.  Shenandoah Telephone’s rates for local exchange service, intrastate toll service, and intrastate access charges are subject to the approval of the Virginia State Corporation Commission, ("VSCC").  The VSCC also establishes and oversees implementation of certain provisions of the federal and state telecommunications laws, including interconnection requirements, promotion of competition, and consumer protection standards.  The VSCC also regulates rates, service areas, service standards, accounting methods, affiliated transactions and certain other financial transactions. Pursuant to the FCC’s October 27, 2011 order adopting comprehensive reforms to the federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules (as discussed above and further below), the FCC preempted state regulatory commissions’ jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, including intrastate terminating access charges, which historically have been within the states’ jurisdiction.  However, the FCC vested in the states the obligation to monitor the tariffing of intrastate rate reductions for a transition period, to oversee interconnection negotiations and arbitrations, and to determine the network edge, subject to FCC guidance, for purposes of the new “bill-and-keep” framework.  A federal appeals court has affirmed the decision. The outcome of those further challenges could modify or delay the effectiveness of the FCC’s rule changes.  During 2017 the FCC initiated a further proceeding to consider whether additional changes to interconnection obligations are needed, including how and where companies interconnect their networks with the networks of other providers. Although we are unable to predict the ultimate effect that the FCC’s order will have on the state regulatory landscape or our 
13

operations, the rules may decrease or eliminate revenue sources or otherwise limit our ability to recover the full value of our network assets.
Interconnection. Federal law and FCC regulations impose certain obligations on incumbent local exchange carriers to interconnect their networks with other telecommunications providers (either directly or indirectly) and to enter into ICAs with certain types of telecommunications providers.  Interconnection agreements typically are negotiated on a statewide basis and are subject to state approval.  If an agreement cannot be reached, parties to interconnection negotiations can submit unresolved issues to federal or state regulators for arbitration.  Disputes regarding intercarrier compensation can be brought in a number of forums (depending on the nature and jurisdiction of the dispute) including PUCs, the FCC, and the courts.  The Company is working to resolve several routine interconnection and intercarrier compensation-related disputes concerning the appropriate rates and terms for the origination and termination of traffic on third-party networks.
Regulation of Intercarrier Compensation.  Shenandoah Telephone participates in the access revenue pools administered by the FCC-supervised National Exchange Carrier Association (“NECA”), which collects and distributes the revenues from interstate access charges that long-distance carriers pay us for originating and terminating interstate calls over our network.  Shenandoah Telephone also participates in some NECA tariffs that govern the rates, terms, and conditions of our interstate access offerings.  Some of those tariffs are under review by the FCC, and we may be obligated to refund affected access charges collected in the past or in the future if the FCC ultimately finds that the tariffed rates were unreasonable.  We cannot predict whether, when, and to what extent such refunds may be due.
On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a number of broad changes to the ICC rules governing the interstate access rates charged by small-to-mid-sized ILECs such as Shenandoah Telephone.  For example, the FCC adopted a national “bill-and-keep” framework, which will result in substantial reductions in the access charges paid by long distance carriers and other interconnecting carriers, possibly to zero, accompanied by increases to the subscriber line charges paid by business and residential end users.  In addition, the FCC has changed some of the rules that determine what compensation voice service providers, including but not limited to wireless carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, VoIP providers and providers of other Internet-enabled services, should pay and receive for originating and terminating traffic that is interconnected with ILEC networks.
The FCC’s changes to the ICC rules have been affirmed by a federal appeals court. These changes, and potential future changes, to such compensation regulations could increase our expenses and/or reduce our revenues. 
The VSCC has jurisdiction over local telephone companies’ intrastate access charges, and has indicated in the past that it might open a generic proceeding on the rates charged for intrastate access, although the scope and likelihood of such a proceeding is unclear in light of the FCC’s overhaul of the intercarrier compensation rules (discussed above), which affect states’ jurisdiction over intrastate access charges.   
Interstate and intrastate access charges are important sources of revenue for Shenandoah Telephone’s operations.  Unless these revenues can either be replaced through a new universal service mechanism, or unless they can be reflected in higher rates to local end users, or replaced through other newly created methods of cost recovery, the loss of revenues to the Company could be significant.  There can be no assurance that access charges in their present form will be continued or that sufficient substitutes for the lost revenues will be provided.  If access charges are reduced without sufficient substitutes for the lost revenues, this could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, changes to the intercarrier compensation rules and policies could have a material impact on our competitive position vis-à-vis other service providers, particularly in our ability to proactively make improvements to our networks and systems.
Universal Service Fund. Shenandoah Telephone receives disbursements from the USF.  In October 2011, the FCC adopted comprehensive changes to the universal service program that are intended in part to stabilize the USF, the total funding of which had increased considerably in recent years.  Some of the FCC’s reforms impact the rules that govern disbursements from the USF to rural ILECs such as Shenandoah Telephone, and to other providers.  Such changes, and additional future changes, may reduce the size of the USF and payments to Shenandoah Telephone, a subsidiary of the Company, which could have an adverse impact on the operating results of the Company.  The Company is not able to predict if or when additional changes will be made to the USF, or whether and how such changes would affect the extent of our total federal universal service assessments, the amounts we receive, or our ability to recover costs associated with the USF. We cannot predict the extent to which such access charges may 
14

decrease or change in the future or the effect such access charge increases may have on our ability to provide cable service. 
If the Universal Service Administrative Company (“USAC”) were required to account for the USF program in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for federal agencies under the Anti-Deficiency Act (the “ADA”), it could cause delays in USF payments to fund recipients and significantly increase the amount of USF contribution payments charged to wireline and wireless consumers.  Each year since 2004, Congress has adopted short-term exemptions for the USAC from the ADA.  Congress has from time to time considered adopting a longer term exemption for the USAC from the ADA, but we cannot predict whether any such exemption will be adopted or the effect it may have on the Company.
In February, 2012, the FCC released an order making substantial changes to the rules and regulations governing the USF Lifeline Program, which provides discounted telephone services to low income consumers.  The order imposes greater recordkeeping and reporting obligations, and generally subjects providers of Lifeline-supported services to greater oversight.  As a result of our Company providing Lifeline-supported voice services, it is subject to increased reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and could be subject to increased regulatory oversight, investigations or audits.  The FCC, USAC and other authorities have conducted, and in the future are expected to continue to conduct, more extensive audits of USF support recipients, as well as other heightened oversight activities.  The impact of these activities on the Company, if any, is uncertain. In 2016, the FCC released a second substantial Lifeline order that amended the program to provide support for broadband services.  Included among the new rules was a requirement that any eligible telecommunications carrier ("ETC") which offered broadband service, on its own or through an affiliate, must also offer Lifeline-supported broadband service.  Due to this requirement, our Company began offering Lifeline-supported broadband in areas where it operates as an ETC.
Broadband Services. In December 2010, the FCC adopted so-called net neutrality rules that it deemed necessary to ensure an open Internet that is not unduly restricted by network gatekeepers. Those rules subjected wireline and wireless broadband Internet access service providers to varying regulations (depending upon the nature of the service) including three key requirements: 1) a prohibition against blocking websites or other online applications; 2) a prohibition against unreasonable discrimination among Internet users or among different websites or other sources of information; and 3) a transparency requirement compelling the disclosure of network management policies.  Our cable and wireline subsidiaries that provide broadband Internet access services were subject to these rules.  However, on January 14, 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, in Verizon v. FCC, struck down major portions of the FCC’s net neutrality rules governing the operating practices of broadband Internet access providers like us.   The Court struck down the first two components of the rules, the prohibition against blocking and unreasonable discrimination, concluding that they constitute common carrier restrictions that are not permissible given the FCC’s earlier decision to classify Internet access as an information service, rather than a “telecommunications service.”  The Court simultaneously upheld the FCC’s transparency requirement, concluding that this final requirement does not amount to impermissible common carrier regulation.
In 2015, the FCC determined that broadband Internet access services, such as those we offer, were a form of telecommunications service under the Communications Act and, on that basis, imposed rules banning service providers from blocking access to lawful content, restricting data rates for downloading lawful content, prohibiting the attachment of non-harmful devices, giving special transmission priority to affiliates, and offering third parties the ability to pay for priority routing. The 2015 rules also imposed a transparency requirement, i.e., an obligation to disclose all material terms and conditions of our service to consumers. 
In December 2017, the FCC adopted an order repudiating its treatment of broadband as a telecommunications service, reclassifying broadband as an information service, and eliminating the 2015 rules other than the transparency requirement, which it eased in significant ways. The FCC also ruled that state regulators may not impose obligations similar to federal obligations that the FCC removed. We expect that various parties will challenge the FCC’s December 2017 ruling in court, and, we cannot predict how any such court challenges will be resolved. Moreover, it is possible that the FCC might further revise its approach to broadband Internet access, or that Congress might enact legislation affecting the rules applicable to the service.
As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest.  Congress and Federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use.  The adoption of new Internet regulations or policies could adversely affect our business.
15

On January 29, 2015, the FCC, in a nation-wide proceeding evaluating whether advanced broadband is being deployed in a reasonable and timely fashion, increased the minimum connection speeds required to qualify as advanced broadband service to 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads.  As a result, the FCC concluded that advanced broadband was not being sufficiently deployed and initiated a new inquiry into what steps it might take to encourage broadband deployment.  This action may lead the FCC to adopt additional measures affecting our broadband business.  At the same time, the FCC has ongoing proceedings to allocate additional spectrum for advanced wireless service, which could provide additional wireless competition to our broadband business.
In addition, in 2015 the West Virginia Office of the Attorney General initiated an informal inquiry into the marketing practices and performance of all sizable West Virginia Internet service providers, including Shenandoah Cable Television, LLC, within West Virginia.  Pursuant to requests from the Attorney General’s office the Company provided all requested information concerning terms of service, pricing, packaging, advertising, service intervals, infrastructure investments and related information (including the results of internal speed tests).  It is unclear when this inquiry will be completed, or whether the Attorney General’s office will request additional information, or take any further action.  The impact of these activities on the Company, if any, is uncertain.
Other Regulatory Obligations.  Shenandoah Telephone is subject to requirements relating to CPNI, CALEA implementation, interconnection, access to rights of way, number portability, number pooling, accessibility of telecommunications for those with disabilities, protection for consumer privacy, and other obligations similar to those discussed above for our wireless operations.
The FCC and other authorities continue to consider policies to encourage nationwide advanced broadband infrastructure development.  For example, the FCC has largely deregulated DSL and other broadband services offered by ILECs.  Such changes benefit our ILEC, but could make it more difficult for us (or for NECA) to tariff and pool DSL costs.  Broadband networks and services are subject to CALEA rules, network management disclosure and prohibitions, requirements relating to consumer privacy, and other regulatory mandates.
911 Services.  We are subject to FCC rules that require telecommunications carriers to make emergency 911 services available to their subscribers, including enhanced 911 services that convey the caller’s telephone number and detailed location information to emergency responders.  In December 2013 the FCC adopted a rule requiring all 911 service providers that serve a public safety answering point or other local emergency responder, to take reasonable measures to ensure 911 circuit diversity, availability of backup power at central offices that directly serve PSAPs, and diversity of network monitoring links.
Long Distance Services.  We offer long distance service to our customers through our subsidiary, Shentel Communications, LLC.  Our long distance rates are not subject to FCC regulation, but we are required to offer long distance service through a subsidiary other than Shenandoah Telephone, to disclose our long distance rates on a website, to maintain geographically averaged rates, to pay contributions to the USF and make other mandatory payments based on our long-distance revenues, and to comply with other filing and regulatory requirements.  In November 2013 the FCC issued an order imposing greater recordkeeping and reporting obligations on certain long distance providers delivering calls to rural areas.  The order imposes greater recordkeeping and quarterly reporting obligations on such providers, and generally subjects such providers to greater oversight.
CLEC Operations.  We are authorized to operate as a Competitive Local Exchange Carrier ("CLEC") in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania.  CLECs generally are subject to federal and state regulations that are similar to, but not as stringent as, those that apply to our ILEC operations.  Both the FCC and the state regulatory authorities require that, in most circumstances, CLEC access charges be no higher than the access charges of the ILECs in areas where they operate.
Employees

At December 31, 2017, we had approximately 1,066 employees, of whom approximately 1,043 were full-time employees.  None of our employees is represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
16

Executive Officers of the Registrant
The following table presents information about our executive officers who, other than Christopher E. French, are not members of our board of directors.  Our executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

Name | Title | Age | Date in Position
Christopher E. French | President and Chief Executive Officer | 60 | April 1988 
Earle A. MacKenzie | Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer | 65 | June 2003 
James F. Woodward | Senior Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer | 58 | November 2017 
William L. Pirtle | Senior Vice President – Wireless | 58 | September 2015 
Thomas A. Whitaker | Senior Vice President – Cable | 57 | September 2015 
Edward H. McKay | Senior Vice President – Wireline and Engineering | 45 | September 2015 
Raymond B. Ostroski | General Counsel, Vice President - Legal and Corporate Secretary | 63 | January 2013 
Richard A. Baughman | Vice President – Information Technology | 50 | June 2010 

Mr. French is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, where he is responsible for the overall leadership and strategic direction of the Company. He has served as President since 1988, and has been a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1996. Prior to appointment as President, Mr. French held a variety of positions with the Company, including Vice President Network Service and Executive Vice President. Mr. French holds a BS in electrical engineering and an MBA, both from the University of Virginia. He has held board and officer positions in both state and national telecommunications associations, including service as a director of the Organization for the Promotion and Advancement of Small Telecommunications Companies (OPASTCO) and was president and director of the Virginia Telecommunications Industry Association. Mr. French is currently a member of both the Board of Directors and the Leadership Committee of the USTelecom Association.  
Mr. MacKenzie is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Company. He joined the Company in 2003, and is responsible for Shentel's daily operations of its subsidiaries. Mr. MacKenzie began his career in the telecommunications industry in 1975.  He was the co-founder and President of Broadslate Networks and Essex Communications. He served as COO of Digital Television Services and as Senior Vice President of Contel Cellular. Mr. MacKenzie holds a BBA in Accounting from The College of William and Mary. Mr. MacKenzie is a member of the Board of Directors of the American Cable Association.
Mr. Woodward is Senior Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer for Shentel. He joined Shentel in November of 2017. Prior to joining Shentel, he held various positions in a 34-year career with Media General Inc., a public diversified American media company, including Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Group Vice President – Growth and Performance  and Vice President – Corporate Human Resources. He holds a B.A. degree in Accounting from James Madison University. 
Mr. Pirtle is Senior Vice President - Wireless for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015.  In this role Mr. Pirtle is responsible for Shentel’s Wireless segment as a CDMA Affiliate of Sprint.  He joined the Company in 1992 as Vice President - Network Services responsible for Shentel's technology decisions, maintenance and operation of Shentel’s various telecommunications networks. He helped launch Shentel's Internet business in 1994, and has led Shentel’s participation in its wireless PCS business and Sprint affiliation beginning in 1995. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia. Mr. Pirtle is a co-founder of the Shenandoah Valley Technology Council and has represented the Company on the Board of ValleyNet, and currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Competitive Carriers Association.
Mr. Whitaker is Senior Vice President - Cable for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015. He is responsible for Shentel cable operations, sales and marketing. Mr. Whitaker joined Shentel in 2004, through the Shentel acquisition of NTC Communications. Mr. Whitaker began his career in 1983. He previously was COO of NTC Communications, and served as Vice President of Network Operations at Broadslate Networks, Director of Wireless Operations for nTelos, and was Co-Founder and Vice President of Nat-Com, Incorporated. Mr. Whitaker is a graduate of West Virginia Wesleyan College in Buckhannon, WV.
17

Mr. McKay is Senior Vice President - Wireline and Engineering for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015. He is responsible for network planning and engineering for all of Shentel’s networks as well as marketing, sales, and operations of Shentel’s wireline and fiber networks. Previously he was Vice President - Wireline and Engineering.  Mr. McKay joined Shentel in 2004, and began his telecommunications industry career in 1996, including previous engineering management positions at UUNET and Verizon. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia, where he earned ME and BS degrees in Electrical Engineering. He represents the Company on the Board of ValleyNet.
Mr. Ostroski is General Counsel and Vice President – Legal and Corporate Secretary for Shentel. He joined Shentel in 2013 and is responsible for all legal and regulatory compliance matters for the Company.  He also acts as Corporate Secretary to the Company’s Board of Directors.  Mr. Ostroski began his career in the telecommunications industry in 1985 and has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for One Communications, Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Executive Vice President and General Counsel for RCN Corporation and Senior Vice President and General Counsel of C-TEC Corporation.  Mr. Ostroski earned a BS degree in Social Science from Wilkes University and also earned a Juris Doctor degree from Temple University School of Law.
Mr. Baughman is Vice President - Information Technology of Shentel. He began his career in 1991 working with the Navy and entered the telecommunications industry in 1995, working for companies including Bellcore/Telcordia, AT&T, Lucent, WINfirst and SureWest. He joined the Company in 2006 and is responsible for all of the back-office software and infrastructure systems at Shentel.  Mr. Baughman has a BS in Electrical Engineering from Lafayette College and an MS in Optics from the University of Rochester.
Websites and Additional Information
The Company maintains a corporate website at www.shentel.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8‑K and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  The contents of our website are not a part of this report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding the Company.
18

