Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business.
--------+----------

General 
 iCAD, Inc. is a global medical technology leader providing innovative cancer detection and therapy solutions. The Company reports in two operating segments: Cancer Detection (“Detection”) and Cancer Therapy (“Therapy”). The Company was incorporated in 1984 as Howtek, Inc. under the laws of the state of Delaware. In 2002 the Company changed its name to iCAD, Inc. and changed its ticker symbol to ICAD. 
 The iCAD website is www.icadmed.com. On this website the following documents are available at no charge: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. 
 
2 
 
 Our SEC filings are also available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Alternatively, you may access any document we have filed by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The information on the website listed above, is not and should not be considered part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document. 
 The Company’s headquarters are located in Nashua, New Hampshire, with manufacturing facilities in Nashua, New Hampshire and, an operations, research, development, manufacturing and warehousing facility in San Jose, California. 
 Company Overview and Strategy 
 iCAD continues to evolve from a business focused on image analysis for the early detection of cancers to a broader player in the oncology market. As a global medical technology leader, the Company’s strategy is to provide customers with a broad portfolio of innovative oncology solutions that address the two primary stages of the cancer care, detection and treatment. The Company believes that early detection, together with earlier targeted intervention, provides patients and healthcare providers with the best tools available to achieve better clinical outcomes resulting in market demand that will drive adoption of iCAD’s solutions. 
Cancer Detection: 
 Approximately 40 million mammograms were performed in the U.S. in 2017. Although mammography is the most effective method for early detection of breast cancer, studies have shown that an estimated 20% or more of all breast cancers go undetected in the screening stage. More than half of the cancers missed are due to observational errors. Computer aided detection (“CAD”), when used in conjunction with mammography, has been proven to help reduce the risk of these observational errors by as much as 20%. Earlier cancer detection typically leads to more effective, less invasive, and less costly treatment options which ultimately should translate into improved patient survival rates. 
 The Company intends to address the detection and diagnosis stages of the cancer care cycle through continued extension of its image analysis and clinical decision support solutions for mammography, breast tomosynthesis, and CT imaging. iCAD believes that advances in digital imaging techniques should bolster its efforts to develop additional commercially viable CAD and breast density assessment advanced image analysis and workflow solutions. CAD and density assessment for breast tomosynthesis is a growth area which the Company believes will provide additional benefits for early breast cancer detection. The Company believes that CAD and breast density assessment for tomosynthesis has the potential to help radiologists better detect cancer and manage the workflow efficiency issues created by large 3D datasets. The Company completed development of a tomosynthesis CAD and workflow tool in 2015 and launched the product in the European market in April 2016, HealthCanada in June 2016 and in the United States after FDA clearance in April 2017. The Company also developed a breast density assessment product for tomosynthesis that assesses breast density using 2D synthetic images that are generated from 3D tomosynthesis datasets. The Company’s tomosynthesis breast density solution is pending FDA clearance and is expected in 2018. 
 
3 
 
The Company believes that the CAD and breast density assessment solutions for breast tomosynthesis may represent a significant growth opportunity over the next three to five years. With over 5,600 installation opportunities for tomosynthesis systems in the U.S., there is a significant future opportunity for CAD and density assessment solutions for tomosynthesis. The Company anticipates that CAD for tomosynthesis will become the standard of care in the near future, similar to what CAD for 2D mammography is today in the U.S. 
 In the U.S., approximately 8,726 facilities (with approximately 18,451 accredited full field digital mammography (“FFDM”) and tomosynthesis mammography systems) were Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) certified to provide mammography screening in 2017. The majority of these centers are using 2D digital mammography FFDM systems and we believe approximately 46% of the market has converted to 3D mammography or tomosynthesis. 
 With several European countries currently exploring the advantages of radiologists reading digital mammograms with CAD, the Company believes there is growth opportunity for mammography CAD in the international markets both from the analog to digital conversion and as more countries accept the use of radiologists using CAD, rather than two radiologists having to read each case. Based on the report published by the European Commission in April 2012, breast cancer is one of the most prevalent forms of cancer and it is also responsible for the most cancer-related deaths among women in the European Union (“EU”). The number of expected breast cancer cases based on the 2012 report was expected to continue to rise as the incidence of cancer increases steeply with age and life expectancy. On average one out of every 10 women in the EU is expected to develop breast cancer at some point in her life. As a result, most countries in Western Europe have or are planning to implement mammography screening programs resulting in an expected increase in the number of mammograms performed in the coming years. 
 Although sales of CAD with 2D mammography in Europe have been historically lower than in the U.S., the Company believes sales of its CAD for tomosynthesis will be adopted with a higher attachment rate in Europe than previously due to workflow improvements and reading time reduction that we believe the solution offers. 
 Cancer Therapy: 
 Radiation therapy is the medical use of ionizing radiation, generally as part of cancer treatment to control or kill malignant cells. Radiation therapy may be curative in a number of types of cancer if the cancer cells are localized to one area of the body. It may also be used as part of curative therapy to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer). The clinical goal in radiation oncology is to deliver the highest radiation dose possible directly to the tumor to kill the cancer cells while minimizing radiation exposure to healthy tissue surrounding the tumor in order to limit complications and side effects. Global incidence rates of new cancer cases are rising, primarily due to aging populations and changing lifestyle habits. However, survival rates are also improving as a result of earlier detection and enhanced treatment options. 
 
4 
 
The three main types of radiation therapy are external beam radiation therapy (“EBRT”), brachytherapy or sealed source radiation therapy, and systemic radioisotope therapy or unsealed source radiotherapy. One of the differences relates to the position of the radiation source; external is outside the body, brachytherapy uses sealed radioactive sources placed precisely in the treatment area, and systemic radioisotopes are given by infusion or oral ingestion. Brachytherapy uses temporary or permanent placement of radioactive sources. Conventional EBRT typically involves multiple treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions (fractions). In the case of brachytherapy, radiation of healthy tissues further away from the sources is reduced. In addition, if the patient moves or if there is any tumor movement within the body during treatment, the radiation source(s) retain their correct position in relation to the tumor. These aspects of brachytherapy offer advantages over EBRT in that brachytherapy is able to direct high doses of radiation to the size and shape of the cancerous area while sparing healthy tissue and organs. 
 Brachytherapy is commonly used as an effective treatment for endometrial, cervical, prostate, breast, and skin cancer, and can also be used to treat tumors in many other body sites. Electronic Brachytherapy (eBx) is a type of radiotherapy that utilizes a miniaturized high dose rate X-ray source to apply radiation directly to the cancerous site. The Xoft® Axxent® Electronic Brachytherapy (eBx®) System® (“Xoft System”) is a proprietary electronic brachytherapy platform designed to deliver isotope-free (non-radioactive) radiation treatment in virtually any clinical setting without the limitations of radionuclides. 
 The process for delivering radiation therapy typically includes a radiation oncologist, a medical physicist responsible for planning the treatment and performing appropriate quality assurance procedures and, in certain instances, other specialty physicians depending upon the type of cancer e.g. a breast surgeon for breast cancer, a dermatologist for skin cancer, a gynecologist for endometrial or cervical cancer. 
 The Company’s Xoft System is a disruptive radiation oncology treatment solution with significant cost, mobility, and treatment time advantages over its competitors or other standards of care. While the primary applications of this system currently are localized breast cancer treatment using a ten to fifteen-minute breast Intraoperative Radiation Therapy (“IORT”) protocol and the treatment of non-melanoma skin cancers (“NMSC”), the Xoft System platform can also be used to treat a wide and growing array of additional cancers, including gynecological and other non-breast IORT clinical indications. 
 There are approximately 300,000 new cases of breast cancer in the United States each year. The Company believes that the Xoft System is uniquely well positioned to offer a differentiated treatment alternative for the approximately 111,000 of these 300,000 annual new cases of early stage breast cancer in the U.S. where patients fit the clinical criteria to make this treatment a viable alternative to conventional radiation treatments. The Xoft System does not require a shielded environment and is relatively small in size, which means that it can easily be transported for use in virtually any clinical setting (including the operating room where IORT is delivered) under radiation oncology supervision. The Xoft System may also be used for Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation (“APBI”), which can be delivered twice daily for five days. There is a growing body of clinical evidence in support of breast IORT and Category I Current Procedural Terminology (“CPT”) codes have been in place for several years, providing reimbursement for the hospital, radiation oncologist, and surgeon for performing the IORT treatment. 
 
5 
 
Basal and Squamous Cell Carcinoma are two of the most prevalent types of NMSC in the U.S., with more than 5.4 million cases being diagnosed annually. The Xoft System enables radiation oncologists and dermatologists to collaborate in offering their patients a non-surgical treatment option that is particularly appropriate for certain challenging lesion locations on the ear, face, scalp, neck and extremities. Xoft also offers the Axxent Hub web-based software platform that enables centers to improve patient safety, conduct treatment planning, enhance and monitor workflow, and improve communication between clinical specialties. 
 The Company views additional Xoft System platform indications as important opportunities in both the U.S. and international markets. The Xoft System is also marketed for gynecological cancers including endometrial and cervical cancer. In 2013 the Company received FDA clearance for an application for the treatment of cervical cancer and launched a new applicator to treat cervical cancer in 2015. Vaginal cancer is the fourth most common cancer affecting women worldwide and cervical cancer incidence rates outside of the U.S. are very high due to inadequate penetration of screening modalities. The Company believes an additional strategic growth opportunity exists in the application of the Xoft System for the treatment of other cancers beyond NMSC and breast cancer in the IORT setting including integration with minimally invasive surgical techniques and systems. 
 On January 4, 2018, the Company adopted a plan to discontinue offering radiation therapy professional services to practices that provide the Company’s electronic brachytherapy solution for the treatment of NMSC under the subscription service model within the Therapy Segment. As a result, the Company will no longer offer the subscription service model to customers. The Company will continue to offer its capital sales model for both skin cancer treatment and IORT, which provides a brachytherapy system and related source and service agreements. The discontinuance of the subscription service model is expected to reduce radiation therapy professional services delivery costs, decrease cash burn, and re-focus the Company on the higher margin capital product and service offerings. 
 
6 
 
Revenue: 
 The table below presents the revenue and percentage of revenue attributable to the Company’s products and services, in 2017, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): 
 

 | For the year ended December 31, | | 
 | 2017 | | % | | 2016 | | % | 2015 | | | % | 
Detection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Digital & MRI CAD revenue | $ | 11,649 | | 41.5 | % | $ | 8,682 | | 33.0 | % | | $ | 11,216 | 27.0 | %
Film based revenue | | — | | 0.0 | % | | — | | 0.0 | % | | | 10 | 0.0 | %
Service | | 6,661 | | 23.7 | % | | 8,451 | | 32.1 | % | | | 8,017 | 19.3 | %
Detection revenue | | 18,310 | | 65.2 | % | | 17,133 | | 65.1 | % | | | 19,243 | 46.3 | %
Therapy: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Product | | 1,905 | | 6.8 | % | | 1,789 | | 6.8 | % | | | 2,972 | 7.2 | %
Service | | 7,887 | | 28.1 | % | | 7,416 | | 28.2 | % | | | 19,339 | 46.5 | %
Therapy revenue | | 9,792 | | 34.8 | % | | 9,205 | | 34.9 | % | | | 22,311 | 53.7 | %
Total revenue | $ | 28,102 | | 100.0 | % | $ | 26,338 | | 100.0 | % | | $ | 41,554 | 100.0 | %

Cancer Therapy Segment Overview and Products 
 The Xoft System utilizes a miniaturized high dose rate yet low energy X-ray source to apply radiation directly to the cancerous site. The goal is to direct the radiation dose to the size and shape of the cancerous area while sparing healthy tissue and organs. The Xoft System delivers clinical dose rates similar to traditional radioactive systems. However, because of the electronic nature of the Xoft technology, the dose fall off is much faster, thus lowering the radiation exposure outside of the prescribed area. Given this rapid dose fall off, there is no need for a lead vault as compared to traditional isotope based radiation therapy, enabling the Xoft System to be transported to different locations within the same facility or between multiple facilities. 
 Intraoperative radiation therapy (“IORT”) can be delivered during an operative procedure, in as little as eight minutes, and may be used as a primary or secondary modality. This technology enables radiation oncology departments in hospitals, clinics and physician offices to perform traditional radiotherapy treatments and offer advanced treatments such as IORT. Current customers of the Xoft System include university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, doctors’ offices, cancer care clinics, veterinary facilities, and strategic partnerships with radiation oncology service providers that enable the supervised delivery of the technology in dermatologist offices. 
 Of the approximately 300,000 women who are diagnosed with breast cancer every year in the U.S., the majority, or 60% are diagnosed with early stage breast cancer. About 60% of early stage breast cancers qualify as candidates for treatment with eBx. Currently, a majority of early stage breast cancer patients who are treated with radiation therapy follow a five to seven-week daily protocol of traditional external beam radiation while a small portion are treated with a five-day protocol using brachytherapy. IORT aims to simplify radiation treatment for early-stage breast cancer patients by delivering one precise dose of radiation directly to the lumpectomy cavity in a single, safe and effective procedure. 
 
7 
 
Breast cancer is a relatively common disease and is often treatable by surgery, followed by radiotherapy with an additional therapy such as chemotherapy and/or hormonal therapy. Early detection has led to earlier diagnosis with small, early stage diseases that can be removed by local excision rather than a complete mastectomy. Microscopic cancerous cells can be present and easily managed with the application of radiotherapy. The protocol for many years for most women included a day procedure for a lumpectomy and five to seven weeks of daily radiation. IORT allows the physician to treat the remaining breast tissue in the operating room while the patient is still under anesthesia, eliminating the need for five to seven weeks of daily traditional radiation therapy. In the last few years, in Europe and in the U.S., shorter treatment protocols of external beam radiation therapy hypo-fractionated to as few as three weeks have emerged as alternatives. 
 In a scientific paper presented at the 2010 ASCO Meeting, Dr. Jayant Vaidya of the University College London, UK, concluded that in the 2,200 patient multinational clinical trial (TARGIT-A trial) IORT, generated with 50 kV electronic brachytherapy, is equivalent to conventional external beam radiotherapy. In December 2012, Dr. Vaidya presented five-year follow up data on the TARGIT-A trial at a forum in conjunction with the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium. Following this presentation, in November 2013 the Lancet online published the five-year update results of the TARGIT-A trial. The updated results of the trial demonstrated that local recurrence rates in the TARGIT (IORT) group were within the non-inferiority boundary when compared to the results in the group who received external beam radiation therapy and that mortality rates from causes other than breast cancer were lower in the TARGIT (IORT) group. In addition, the data revealed that at five years, the local recurrence rate in patients who were treated with IORT “concurrent” with lumpectomy was 2.3% compared with the recurrence rate for patients who received traditional external beam radiation therapy which was 1.3%. Given the study had a non-inferiority boundary of 2.5%, the study revealed that IORT is a non-inferior treatment relative to external beam radiation therapy for patients who meet the established clinical criteria. 
 Additionally, in 2016, Melinda Epstein, PhD, et al. of Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, CA published two clinical papers on their experience with the Xoft System for the treatment of early-stage breast cancer with IORT. In June 2016, the Annals of Surgical Oncology published data on 702 patients treated from June 2010 to January 2016, demonstrating a 1.7% recurrence rate. Further, less than 5% of patients had significant complications, concluding that IORT safely delivers radiation and allows some women who cannot (or decline to) undergo whole breast radiation to consider breast-conserving therapy rather than mastectomy. In August 2016, The Breast Journal published 20-month mean follow-up data on 146 patients with pure ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) treated with IORT. The data showed a 2.1% recurrence rate with relatively few complications and again concluded that x-ray based IORT is a promising treatment modality that greatly simplifies the delivery of post-excision radiation therapy. 
 Further, in 2017, researchers from Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian published another clinical paper in the Annals of Surgical Oncology on their experience with the Xoft System in treating 204 early-stage breast cancers in a prospective, X-ray IORT trial from June 2010 to September 2013. With a median follow-up of 50 months, results indicated there have been seven ipsilateral breast tumor events (IBTE), no regional or distant recurrences, and no breast cancer-
 
8 
 
 related deaths. Kaplan-Meier analysis projects that 2.9% of patients will recur locally at 4 years. The site’s low complication and recurrence rates support the cautious use and continued study of IORT in selected woman with low-risk breast cancer. The Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian IORT series is currently the largest single-facility IORT series with the Xoft System in the United States. 
 Also, in 2017, the Company announced results of a landmark study that showed the benefits of IORT compared to external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in the treatment of early-stage breast cancer. The analysis demonstrated that IORT could result in direct cost savings for the U.S. healthcare system of more than $630 million over the lifetime of patients diagnosed annually with early-stage breast cancer, as well as significantly benefit patient health by minimizing radiation exposure and offering a better quality of life. The results of the study were published in November 2017 in the peer-reviewed Cost Effectiveness and Resource Allocation and determined IORT to be the preferred method of treatment. 
 As the Company continues to focus on broadening global awareness and patient access to IORT, 2017 also brought meaningful progress in the area of international research. Physicians from Taiwan published a clinical paper in November 2017 in the peer-reviewed PLOS One journal. The multi-center study examined patient selection and the oncologic safety of IORT with the Xoft System for the management of early-stage breast cancer. From 2013-2015, 26 hospitals in Taiwan performed a total of 261 IORT procedures. With a mean follow-up of 15.6 months, locoregional recurrence was observed in 0.8% of patients. The study concluded that preliminary results of IORT in Taiwan showed it is well accepted by patients and clinicians. 
 In August 2017, the Company announced that its balloon applicators received approval from the China Food & Drug Administration (CFDA) for the treatment of early-stage breast cancer. With this CFDA approval, the complete suite of Xoft System products is now available to clinicians and patients in China. In addition to the Chinese market, the company continues to build positive momentum and has regulatory approval in key geographies such as Spain, Australia, and Switzerland. 
 The reimbursement for IORT has improved from 2011 when the American Medical Association (AMA) established Category I CPT codes for IORT based on clinical evidence. These codes and payment values became effective beginning January 2013. In 2014, CMS announced that the payment value for IORT treatments would increase for the 2015 year from the payment values in 2011. Current IORT payment values have remained consistent with the values established in 2014. 
 NMSC is considered an epidemic in the U.S. with over 3.5 million cases diagnosed annually. Of those cases, approximately 20%-30% have specific diagnoses and lesion characteristics that make such patients potential candidates for electronic brachytherapy treatment. The Xoft System is a viable alternative treatment option for patients with lesions in cosmetically challenging locations (ear, nose, scalp, neck), locations that experience difficulties in healing (lower legs, upper chest, fragile skin), patients on anticoagulants, and patients who are anxious about surgery. The Xoft System has been used to treat more than 10,000 NMSC lesions. Recent clinical data published from 2015 to 2017 demonstrates promising local control and supports eBx as a 
 
9 
 
 convenient, effective, nonsurgical treatment option offering minimal toxicity and excellent cosmesis for eligible NMSC patients. In 2017, the Company announced that results of a matched-pair cohort study of 369 early-stage NMSC patients treated with the Xoft System or Mohs micrographic surgery showed that rates of recurrence of cancer were virtually identical at a mean follow-up of 3.4 years. Mohs micrographic surgery is accepted as the most effective technique for removing basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. The study results were published online in the peer-reviewed Journal of Contemporary Brachytherapy. 
 Since 2016, electronic brachytherapy for the treatment of NMSC has been reimbursed under a skin-specific Category III CPT code. Reimbursement for the treatment delivery is provided through the Category III CPT code, 0394T, which covers high dose rate electronic brachytherapy, skin surface application, per fraction, and includes basic dosimetry, when performed. There are additional Category I CPT codes reportable with the service as determined by physician orders, medical necessity, and documentation. Coverage policies and payment values associated with CPT code 0394T are determined by the regional U.S. Medicare Administrative Contractors. There are several Medicare Administrative Contractors that have published rates for the 0394T code and others that reimburse on a case-by-case basis. 
 Gynecological cancers are also appropriate for treatment with electronic brachytherapy. There are approximately 50,000 new cases of endometrial cancer each year in the U.S. and nearly 300,000 new cases worldwide. In 2017, the first-ever European analysis of electronic brachytherapy using the Xoft System for endometrial and cervical cancer treatment was presented at the ESTRO meeting. Researchers from Miguel Servet University Hospital in Zaragoza, Spain presented promising study results demonstrating excellent outcomes in acute toxicity in 29 endometrial or cervical cancer patients treated with the Xoft System from September 2015 to September 2016. Additional research showed that electronic brachytherapy delivered a lower dose of radiation to surrounding healthy organs at risk, such as the bladder and rectum, than would have been delivered had 192Ir been utilized instead of the Xoft System. 
 Additionally, electronic brachytherapy is appropriate for use in other IORT clinical settings where surgical resection is unable to completely eliminate all cancer cells. In the U.S. and international settings, the Company believes that IORT for prostate, pelvic, gastrointestinal, abdominal, spinal, and soft tissue sarcoma applications remains a potential market given the minimal shielding requirements associated with this treatment modality. 
 Electronic Brachytherapy products: 
 Electronic Brachytherapy (eBx®) Treatment for Breast Cancer 
 Xoft System 
 The portable Xoft system uses isotope-free miniaturized X-ray tube technology to deliver therapy directly to cancer sites with minimal radiation exposure to surrounding healthy tissue. The Xoft System is FDA-cleared, CE marked and licensed in a growing number of countries for the treatment of cancer anywhere in the body, including early-stage breast cancer, NMSC and gynecological cancers. The Company offers FDA-cleared applicators for the utilization of the Xoft system including breast applicators for IORT and APBI in the treatment of breast cancer, 
 
10 
 
 vaginal applicators for the treatment of endometrial cancer, cervical applicators for the treatment of cervical cancer, and skin applicators for the treatment of non-melanoma skin cancers. The flexible single-use breast IORT and APBI applicators are offered in a variety of sizes based on clinical need. The endometrial, cervical and skin applicators are reusable and are manufactured in various sizes based on the anatomical requirements of the patient or the size of the lesion. The Company also provides the 50kV isotope-free energy source, a comprehensive service warranty program, and various accessories such as the Axxent eBx Rigid Shield for internal IORT shielding. The 50kV energy source is typically sold as an annual contract customized to individual customer volume/usage requirements. 
 The Company has made several enhancements to the Xoft system controller including a new software interface enabling enhanced system functionality and an upgraded high voltage connection improving system performance. In 2014, the Company developed and launched a new SPX Controller which includes an optimized skin treatment arm customized for compatibility in confined patient treatment rooms in physician office-based facilities. This controller complements the MPX Controller which is designed for multi-application use. In 2016, the Company unveiled a new Streamlined Module for Advanced Radiation Therapy (SMART) solution for its Xoft System and Axxent Hub cloud-based oncology collaboration software solution. Comprising a new Wi-Fi enabled Xoft System and enhanced Axxent Hub cloud software, the SMART solution improves workflow efficiency and the flexibility and security of skin eBx treatments while also improving clinical collaboration and supervision. 
 In early 2013, the Company received FDA clearance for a new applicator for use in the treatment of cervical cancer and launched this product in the U.S and international markets in 2015. This new applicator further expands the Company’s product portfolio in the gynecological cancer market and enables customers to offer comprehensive electronic brachytherapy solutions to their patients in need of gynecological radiation therapy. 
 Cancer Detection Segment Overview and Products 
 Mammography CAD systems use sophisticated algorithms to analyze image data and mark suspicious areas in the image that may indicate cancer. The locations of the abnormalities are marked in a manner that allows the reader of the image to reference the same areas in the original mammogram for further review. The use of CAD aids in the detection of potential abnormalities for the radiologist to review. After initially reviewing the case films or digital images, a radiologist reviews the CAD results and subsequently re-examines suspicious areas that warrant a second look before making a final interpretation of the study. The radiologist determines if a clinically significant abnormality exists and whether further diagnostic evaluation is warranted. As a medical imaging tool, CAD is most prevalent as an adjunct to mammography given the documented success of CAD for detecting breast cancer. 
 
11 
 
Digital Mammography CAD products: 
 Advanced Image Analysis and Workflow Solutions in Breast Imaging (Mammography) 
 iCAD develops and markets a comprehensive range of high-performance Artificial Intelligent cancer detection and workflow solutions for digital mammography systems worldwide. iCAD’s PowerLook Mammo Detection (also known as SecondLook Digital) is based on sophisticated patented algorithms that analyze the data, automatically identifying and marking suspicious regions in 2D full field digital mammography images. The solution provides the radiologist with a “second look” which helps the radiologist detect actionable missed cancers earlier than screening mammography alone. PowerLook Mammo Detection detects and identifies suspicious masses and micro-calcifications utilizing image processing, pattern recognition and artificial intelligence techniques. Information from thousands of mammography images are incorporated into these algorithms enabling the product to distinguish between characteristics of cancerous and normal tissue. The result is earlier detection of hard-to-find cancers, improved workflow for radiologists, and higher quality patient care. 
 In June 2012, iCAD introduced its next generation PowerLook Advanced Mammography Platform® (AMP) recently rebranded as PowerLook Breast Health Solutions. The technology expands on iCAD’s legacy SecondLook Digital platform and is the mammography platform upon which all future breast imaging offerings from iCAD will be built. PowerLook Breast Health Solutions is the first product suite of its kind to integrate cancer detection and breast density assessment software, which aids radiologists by standardizing their approach to breast density assessment and categorization. The Company acquired the breast density assessment solution from VuComp in April 2015 and subsequently released it to market under the product name iReveal and recently rebranded to PowerLook Density Assessment. Thirty states now mandate reporting of a breast density score to patients as part of the annual mammogram, PowerLook Density Assessment provides an automated, consistent and standardized reporting tool to assist with this process. 
 Included with PowerLook is a multi-vendor CAD and density assessment server that allows hospitals and imaging facilities to connect up to four mammography acquisition devices regardless of vendor. This reduces the need for separate CAD servers while lowering hardware and service costs. iCAD’s PowerLook also provides a powerful flexible DICOM connectivity solution enabling universal compatibility with leading picture archive and communication systems (“PACS”) and Review Workstations. The Company expects additional modules to be released and integrated into PowerLook AMP platform in the future. 
 PowerLook Server 
 PowerLook Server is designed to function with leading digital mammography systems (digital breast tomosynthesis, FFDM and computed radiography) – including systems sold by GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Systems, Fuji Medical Systems, Hologic, Inc., Sectra Medical Systems, Philips, Carestream, IMS Giotto, Agfa Corporation, and Planmed. The algorithms in the PowerLook solutions have been optimized for each digital imaging provider based upon characteristics of their unique detectors. 
 PowerLook Server is a computer server residing on a customer’s network that receives patient studies from the imaging modality, performs analysis and sends the results to PACS and/or review workstations. Workflow and efficiency are critical in digital imaging environments therefore iCAD has developed flexible, powerful DICOM integration capabilities that enable PowerLook AMP to integrate with leading PACS and review workstations from multiple providers. iCAD has worked with its OEM partners to ensure its product results are integrated and easily viewed using each review workstation’s graphical user interface. 
 
12 
 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (“MRI”) 
 In July 2012, iCAD entered into a strategic partnership agreement with Invivo Corp., a subsidiary of Philips Healthcare. With this agreement, iCAD began developing the DynaCAD product software for breast and prostate MR image analysis workstations to help radiologists find cancer earlier and more efficiently. Invivo sells the DynaCAD product both directly and through the Philips global distribution network. In August 2015, Invivo exercised a contractual right to a perpetual paid up license in exchange for a payment of approximately $2.0 million. In January 2017, the MRI products and related assets were sold to Invivo Corp. for $3.2 million. Prior to the January 2017 sale of the MRI products and related assets, the paid-up license fee was being amortized over the remaining life of the agreement. 
 Breast Tomosynthesis 
 Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (“DBT”) was introduced in the United States in 2010 by Hologic, Inc., followed by GE Healthcare who received FDA approval for their tomosynthesis system in August 2014, Siemens approval followed in April 2015, and Fuji was approved in early 2017. Tomosynthesis has been demonstrated to have multiple advantages over traditional 2D mammography. It has improved tissue visualization and detection and results in lower recall rates for patients. Tomosynthesis improves the sensitivity and specificity of cancer diagnosis when compared to mammography. Clinical studies indicate that digital breast tomosynthesis improves the ability to distinguish malignant from benign tumors and can detect early signs of cancer hidden by overlapping tissues. This helps reduce the overall number of biopsies performed and the call back rates. Initial studies have indicated that tomosynthesis has the ability to detect 41% more invasive cancers than conventional mammography, and it also reduces false-positives by up to 40%. 
 Artificial intelligence can play an important role in improving the accuracy and efficiency of reading breast tomosynthesis cases by automatically identifying breast masses and micro-calcifications. In 2015, the Company completed development of its cancer detection and workflow solution for DBT to aid radiologists in their review of DBT as a means of improving lesion detection and reducing the time to read the large tomosynthesis datasets. The initial solution is developed for use with GE Healthcare’s digital breast tomosynthesis for the detection of soft tissue densities (masses, architectural distortions and asymmetries). In January 2017, the Company submitted an amendment to its original PMA application for its 3D tomosynthesis product and the Company received FDA Approval in March of 2017. The Company is continuing to develop a multi-vendor DBT solution that will detect calcifications and contain additional functionality and workflow tools. The Company received CE mark in early 2018 and expects Health Canada and FDA clearance in late 2018. 
 
13 
 
Computed Tomography Applications and Colonic Polyp Detection 
 CT Colonography (“CT”) is a well-established and widely used imaging technology that is used to image cross-sectional “slices” of various parts of the human body. When combined, these “slices” provide detailed volumetric representations of the imaged areas. With recent image quality improvements and greatly increased imaging speeds, CT imaging use has expanded in both the number of procedures performed as well as the applications for which it is utilized. While the increased image quality and number of cross sectional slices per scan provides valuable diagnostic information, it adds to the challenge of managing and interpreting the large volume of data generated. The Company believes that the challenges in CT imaging present it with opportunities to provide automated image analysis and clinical decision support solutions. 
 CTC is a less invasive technique than traditional colonoscopy for imaging the colon. However, the process of reading a CTC exam can be lengthy and tedious as the interpreting physician is often required to traverse the entire length of the colon multiple times. Computer Aided Detection (“CAD”) technology can play an important role in improving the accuracy and efficiency of reading CTC cases by automatically identifying potential polyps. CAD technology has been developed to aid radiologists in their review of CTC images as a means of improving polyp detection. The Company believes that CAD could become an important adjunct to CTC. 
 Advanced Image Analysis and Workflow Solutions in CT Colonography 
 VeraLook™ 
 iCAD introduced a CAD solution, VeraLook, a CAD algorithm for CTC, in August 2010 following FDA clearance of the product. This solution is designed to support detection of colonic polyps in conjunction with CTC. iCAD believes that Veralook is a natural extension of iCAD’s core competencies in image analysis and image processing. The system works in conjunction with third party display workstations and PACS vendors. Field testing of the product was initiated in 2008 and iCAD conducted a multi-reader clinical study of iCAD’s Veralook product, for use with CTC. Results of the Company’s clinical study, “Impact of Computer-Aided Detection for CT Colonography in a Multireader, Multicase Trial” demonstrated that reader sensitivity improved 5.5% for patients with both small and large polyps with the use of Veralook. The use of Veralook reduced specificity of readers by 2.5%. The clinical relevance of Veralook was improved reader performance while maintaining high reader specificity. Throughout 2016, iCAD distributed the VeraLook product with advanced visualization reading workstations manufactured by Vital Images, a Toshiba Medical System Group Company and added Philips Healthcare in the U.S. in early 2018. In 2014, iCAD received CFDA (China Food and Drug Administration) approval to sell VeraLook in China. 
Sales and Marketing 
 iCAD, through its Xoft subsidiary, markets the Xoft System in the United States and select countries worldwide. The Company has expanded its installed base of Xoft Systems in the U.S. and has established increasing installations in a number of countries located in Europe and Asia. Xoft has established strong partnerships in Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Macau Egypt/ Saudi Arabia, India, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Russia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Luxemburg, Taiwan, Turkey, United Kingdom and Ireland, and is actively exploring market entry in South and Central America. 
 
14 
 
Xoft’s direct U.S. sales force sells the system on the basis of its clinical effectiveness as a platform high dose rate, low energy radiation therapy solution for hospitals, ambulatory care centers and free-standing radiation oncology facilities and other office-based uses, e.g. dermatology clinical practices. The Xoft System offers a distinct competitive advantage in that it is a highly mobile unit with minimal shielding requirements that can easily be moved from room to room within a single healthcare institution or be transported from facility to facility given its relatively compact form factor. 
 Breast IORT is a strategic focus of the Company due to the significant clinical /lifestyle benefits to the patient and economic advantages to the facility. NMSC is an additional strategic priority given the high incidence rate of the disease and the benefits of the Xoft System in this clinical indication. Based on the additional clinical applications including gynecological cancers, other IORT applications (in addition to breast IORT), as well as its potential to scale in the future to address other indications for use, the Company believes the Xoft System offers unique flexibility and opportunities for growth. 
 Core to the Company’s eBx market development strategy is a comprehensive medical education program. Xoft actively participates in several key industry scientific conferences in the United States and Europe including but not limited to ASTRO, ESTRO and ASBrS on an annual basis. More recently, Xoft has participated in key dermatology conferences in the U.S. including AAD. At select industry conferences and at independent venues, the Company provides specific additional eBx professional education programs and product demonstrations in the form of live educational sessions in U.S. markets. The Company supported its medical education program in 2017 with educational webinars and clinical presentations at key industry meetings to broaden physician awareness of the Xoft System and eBx technology in the U.S. The Company also maintains a scientific advisory board composed of leading clinician experts who share a commitment to raising awareness of the unique benefits the Xoft eBx system offers to providers and patients alike. 
 The Company further supports breast IORT through its ongoing ExBRT Clinical Trial– a post-market clinical trial designed to enroll 1,000 patients at up to 50 sites. The study enables facilities interested in treating early stage breast cancer patients with the Xoft System to participate in a common clinical protocol and follow enrolled patients for up to ten years. The ExBRT study is led by brachytherapy and breast care physicians including breast surgeons, radiation oncologists, pathologists, and medical physicists from leading U.S. breast cancer care institutions. In February 2018, the study completed enrollment of 1,200 patients at 27 centers in the U.S. and Europe. Clinical results from the ExBRT study are expected to be presented at key medical conferences in 2018. 
 iCAD’s mammography products are sold through its direct regional sales organization in the U.S. as well as through its OEM partners, including GE Healthcare, Fuji Medical Systems, and Siemens Medical Systems. The VeraLook CTC CAD product is primarily distributed by Vital Images and Philips Healthcare, which will integrate the iCAD solution in the U.S.. 
 
15 
 
The Company’s cancer detection products are marketed on the basis of their clinical superiority and their ability to assist radiologists detect more cancers earlier, while seamlessly integrating into the clinical workflow of the radiologist. As part of its sales and marketing efforts, iCAD has developed and executed a variety of public relations and local outreach programs with numerous iCAD customers. Additional investments continue to be made to cultivate relationships with the leaders in breast cancer solutions such as at worldwide or national trade shows, where industry leaders discuss the future of image analysis solutions in these clinical disciplines. 
 Competition 
 The Company’s existing eBx products face competition in breast IORT primarily from one company: Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., (“Zeiss”) a multinational company, where eBx products are only one of that company’s many products. Zeiss manufactures and sells eBx products for the delivery of IORT. Zeiss has expanded their product portfolio to include additional anatomical areas beyond breast IORT. Zeiss now offers a range of radiation therapy applicators for use in various applications including spine, the gastrointestinal tract, skin, and endometrial cancers. Zeiss has an established base of breast IORT installations in Europe where the majority of the TARGIT-A trial clinical sites are located. IntraOp Medical is an additional competitor in the high dose rate (“HDR”) radiation therapy market. 
 The Company’s NMSC products face numerous competitors utilizing a variety of technologies. Surface Radiation Therapy (SRT) systems, including Sensus Healthcare, directly compete with the Xoft System in this market in which Dermatologists and Radiation Oncologists seek mobile, efficient, non-surgical treatment options. In late 2013, Elekta received clearance for its electronic brachytherapy system “Esteya” for use in the treatment of NMSC. This system utilizes a low energy 69.5 kV source and a range of surface applicators in a small footprint system profile. Other competitors in the NMSC market include surgery (excision, Mohs surgery, and destruction). Mohs surgery remains the primary treatment option for dermatologists in the majority of NMSC cases. Traditional radiation therapy including external beam radiation therapy is also a treatment modality used to treat NMSC patients. 
 New market opportunities including expansion of the gynecological product portfolio and other IORT applications beyond breast IORT have brought competitive dynamics to the Company’s efforts. Larger, more diversified radiation therapy companies offering a wide variety of clinical solutions for HDR brachytherapy including Varian Medical Systems and Elekta compete in these areas. These multi-national firms offer broad product portfolios including a full range of HDR brachytherapy afterloaders and applicators as well as traditional radiation therapy solutions including linear accelerators, treatment planning solutions, and workflow management capabilities. 
 The Company currently faces direct competition in its cancer detection and density assessment business from Hologic, Inc., Volpara, Parascript, and StatLife. The Company believes that its market leadership in mammography CAD and density assessment and strong relationships with its strategic partners will provide it with a competitive advantage in the mammography CAD and density assessment market. 
 
16 
 
The Company has a strong OEM relationship with GE Healthcare worldwide supporting its PowerLook Tomo Detection for breast tomosynthesis. The Company believes that there is no direct competition at this time. With the pending release of the multi-vendor solution PowerLook Tomo Detection 2.0, the Company expects to expand its OEM partnerships with other DBT providers. 
 The Company’s CT Colon solution faces competition from the traditional imaging CT equipment manufacturers and emerging CAD companies. Siemens Medical, GE Healthcare, and Philips Medical Systems currently offer polyp detection products outside the U.S. Siemens Medical received FDA clearance for CT Polyp CAD in 2014. The Company expects that CT manufacturers will offer a colonic polyp detection solution as an advanced feature of their image management and display products typically sold with their CT equipment. The Company believes that current regulatory requirements present a significant barrier to entry into this market and that its market leadership in mammography CAD provides it with a competitive advantage within the CT Colonography community. 
 iCAD operates in highly competitive and rapidly changing markets with competitive products available from nationally and internationally recognized companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than iCAD and these competitors are well established in the healthcare market. In addition, some companies have developed or may develop technologies or products that could compete with the products the Company manufactures and distributes or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Moreover, competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval, or product commercialization before we do, which would limit our ability to compete with them. These and other competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 
 Manufacturing and Professional Services 
 The Company’s CAD products are manufactured and assembled by the Company. In addition, the Company conducts purchasing and supply chain management, planning/scheduling, manufacturing engineering, service repairs, quality assurance, inventory management, and warehousing. Once the product has shipped, it is usually installed by one of the Company’s OEM partners at the customer site. When a product sale is made directly to the end customer by iCAD, the product is generally installed by iCAD personnel at the customer site. 
 iCAD’s professional services staff is composed of a team of trained and specialized individuals providing comprehensive product support on a pre-sales and post-sales basis. This includes pre-sale product demonstrations, product installations, applications training, and call center management (or technical support). The support center is the single point of contact for the customer, providing remote diagnostics, troubleshooting, training, and service dispatch. Service repair efforts are generally performed at the customer site by third party service organizations or in the Company’s repair depot by the Company’s repair technicians. 
 
17 
 
Xoft’s portable Xoft System is manufactured and assembled for Xoft by contract manufacturers. Xoft’s electronic brachytherapy miniaturized X-ray source, which is used to deliver radiation directly to the cancerous site, is manufactured in the Company’s San Jose, CA facility. Xoft operations consist of manufacturing, engineering, administration, purchasing, planning and scheduling, service repairs, quality assurance, inventory management, and warehousing. Once the product has shipped, it is typically installed by Xoft personnel at the customer site. 
 Xoft’s field service and customer service staff is composed of a team of trained and specialized individuals providing comprehensive product support, physics support, radiation therapists and billing support on a pre-sales and post-sales basis. The field service staff also provides product installations, maintenance, training and service repair efforts generally performed at the customer site. The customer service staff provides pre-sale product demonstrations, customer support, troubleshooting, service dispatch and call center management. 
 Government Regulation 
 The Company’s systems are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with potentially significant costs for compliance. The FDA’s regulations govern, among other things, product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, pre-market clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. The Company’s devices are also subject to FDA clearance or approval before they can be marketed in the U.S. and may be subject to additional regulatory approvals before they can be marketed outside the U.S. There is no guarantee that future products or product modifications will receive the necessary approvals. 
 The FDA’s Quality System Regulations require that the Company’s operations follow extensive design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. The Company is subject to FDA regulations covering labeling and adverse event reporting including the FDA’s general prohibition of promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses. 
 The Company’s manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies. Compliance with extensive international regulatory requirements is also required. Failure to fully comply with applicable regulations could result in the Company receiving warning letters, non-approvals, suspensions of existing approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. 
 We are also subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws which broadly relate to our interactions with healthcare practitioners and other participants in the healthcare system, including, among others, the following: 
 

• | anti-kickback, false claims, physician self-referral, and anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the UK’s Bribery Act 2010, or the UK Anti-Bribery Act;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | state law and regulation regarding fee splitting and other relationships between health care providers and non-professional entities, including companies providing management and reimbursement services;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
18 
 

• | laws regulating the privacy and security of personally identifiable information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act; and
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | healthcare reform laws, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to together as PPACA, which include regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 In addition, we are subject to numerous federal, state, foreign and local laws relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, among others. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future, and complying with these laws may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
 Additionally, in order to market and sell our products in certain countries outside of the U.S., we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of each specific country. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary by country. 
 Federal, state, and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices and management services and software are subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. 
 Reimbursement 
 The federal and state governments of the United States establish guidelines and pay reimbursements to hospitals and free-standing clinics for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures under Medicare at the federal level and Medicaid at the state level. Private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. 
 The federal government reviews and adjusts coverage policies and reimbursement levels periodically and also consider various Medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services in hospitals and free-standing clinics. State government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state’s Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. 
 Market acceptance of our medical products in the U.S. and other countries is dependent upon the purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures, and the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. 
 
19 
 
The provisions of the Affordable Care Act went into effect in 2012. We are continuing to evaluate the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our business. We believe that elements of the program including the shift to value-based healthcare and increased focus on patient satisfaction will benefit the Company in the future. Other elements of this legislation, including comparative effectiveness research, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. Additionally, we are now evaluating the possible effect of the repeal or replacement of the Affordable Care Act. 
 Intellectual Property 
 The Company primarily relies on a combination of patents, trade secrets and copyright law, third-party and employee confidentiality agreements, and other protective measures to protect its intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. 
 The Company has many patents covering its CAD and eBx technologies expiring between 2018 and 2028. These patents help the Company maintain a proprietary position in its markets. Additionally, the Company has a number of patent applications pending domestically, some of which have been also filed internationally, and the Company plans to file additional domestic and foreign patent applications when it believes such protection will benefit the Company. These patents and patent applications relate to current and future uses of iCAD’s cancer detection and digitizer technologies and products, including cancer detection solutions for tomosynthesis, CAD for CT colonography and lung and CAD for MRI breast and prostate, as well as Xoft’s current and future eBx technologies and products. The Company has also secured a non-exclusive patent license from the National Institute of Health which relates broadly to CAD in colonography, a non-exclusive patent license from Cytyc/Hologic which relates to balloon applicators for breast brachytherapy, and a non-exclusive license from Zeiss which relates to brachytherapy. The Company believes it has all the necessary licenses from third parties for software and other technologies in its products; however, we do not know if current or future patent applications will issue with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. 
 Sources and Availability of Materials 
 The Company depends upon a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for its products, and certain components in its products may be available from a sole or limited number of suppliers. The Company’s products are generally either manufactured and assembled for it by a sole manufacturer, by a limited number of manufacturers or assembled by it from supplies it obtains from a limited number of suppliers. Critical components required to manufacture these products, whether by outside manufacturers or directly, may be available from a sole or limited number of component suppliers. The Company generally does not have long-term arrangements with any of its manufacturers or suppliers. The loss of a sole or key manufacturer or supplier would impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect its sales and operating results. The Company’s business would be harmed if any of its manufacturers or suppliers could not meet its quality and performance specifications and quantity and delivery requirements. 
 
20 
 
Major Customers 
 The Company operates in two segments: Cancer Detection (“Detection”) and Cancer Therapy (“Therapy”). The Company markets its products for digital mammography and cancer therapy systems through its direct regional sales organization. Cancer detection products are also sold through OEM partners, including GE Healthcare, Fuji Medical Systems, Siemens Medical and Invivo. OEM partners generated approximately 55% of Detection revenues and 36% of revenue overall. GE Healthcare was the largest single customer with approximately $7.1 million in 2017, $3.9 million in 2016, and $4.1 million in 2015 or 25%, 15%, and 10% of total revenues, respectively. 
Engineering and Product Development 
 The Company spent $9.6 million, $10.3 million, and $9.8 million on research and development activities including depreciation and amortization, during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Research and development expenses are primarily attributed to personnel, consulting, subcontract, licensing and data collection expenses relating to the Company’s new product development and clinical testing. 
Employees 
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company had 119 employees, of whom 115 are full time employees, with 31 involved in sales and marketing, 20 in research and development, 56 in service, manufacturing, technical support and operations functions, and 12 in administrative functions. None of the Company’s employees is represented by a labor organization. The Company considers its relations with employees to be good. 
Environmental Protection 
 Compliance with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has not had a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings (losses) or competitive position of the Company. 
Financial Geographic Information 
 The Company’s primary market is in the United States through its direct sales force and OEM partners. Export sales are typically through OEM and channel partners. Total export sales represented approximately $3.9 million or 14% of revenue in 2017 as compared to $2.3 million or 9% of revenue in 2016 and $2.3 million or 6% of total revenue in 2015. Export sales by region are as follows (in thousands): 
 
21 
 

 | Percent of Export sales | 
Region | 2017 | | | 2016 | | | 2015
Europe | | 68 | % | | | 36 | % | | 63 | %
China | | 9 | % | | | 21 | % | | 2 | %
Taiwan | | 11 | % | | | 19 | % | | 15 | %
Canada | | 5 | % | | | 15 | % | | 11 | %
Other | | 7 | % | | | 8 | % | | 9 | %
Total | | 100 | % | | | 100 | % | | 100 | %
Total Export sales | $ | 3,931 | | | $ | 2,323 | | $ | 2,278 | 

 Significant export sales in Europe are as follows: 
 

 | Percent of Export sales | 
Region | 2017 | | | 2016 | | 2015
France | | 41 | % | | 15 | % | 21 | %
Spain | | 9 | % | | 7 | % | 5 | %
Germany | | 7 | % | | 3 | % | — | 
Bulgaria | | 2 | % | | 3 | % | 26 | %
United Kingdon | | 2 | % | | 3 | % | 9 | %

Foreign Regulations 
 International sales of the Company’s products are subject to foreign government regulation, the requirements of which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is an expensive and time-consuming process. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals timely or at all in any foreign country in which it plans to market its CAD products and the Xoft system, and if it fails to receive and maintain such approvals, its ability to generate revenue may be significantly diminished. 
Product Liability Insurance 
 The Company believes that it maintains appropriate product liability insurance with respect to its products. The Company cannot be certain that with respect to its current or future products, such insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company or that such coverage will be adequate for liabilities that may actually be incurred. 
