Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business
OVERVIEW
We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company using our proprietary synthetic vaccine particle, or SVP, technology to discover and develop targeted therapies that are designed to modulate the immune system to effectively and safely treat rare and serious diseases. Many such diseases are treated with biologic therapies that are foreign to the patient’s immune system and therefore elicit an undesired immune response. Of particular concern are anti-drug antibodies, or ADAs, which are often produced by the immune system in response to biologic therapy and can adversely affect the efficacy and safety of treatment. Our SVP technology is a highly flexible platform that is capable of incorporating a wide range of antigens and immunomodulators, potentially allowing for the development of products that either induce antigen-specific immune tolerance (tolerogenic SVP technology) or activate the immune system (stimulatory SVP technology). Our proprietary tolerogenic SVP technology, SVP-Rapamycin, encapsulates an immunomodulator in biodegradable nanoparticles to mitigate the formation of ADAs and induce antigen-specific immune tolerance to life-sustaining biologic drugs. We believe SVP-Rapamycin has potential to enhance the efficacy and safety of existing approved biologic drugs, improve product candidates under development and enable novel therapies. 
Despite rapid advancement in biologic treatments for rare and serious diseases, many of these therapies are not broadly effective because they are foreign to the patient’s immune system and, therefore, may elicit an immune response, known as immunogenicity. Undesired immunogenicity includes the formation of ADAs that can compromise the drug’s efficacy and cause serious allergic reactions. The formation of ADAs is known to occur in established treatments such as enzyme and protein replacement therapies, as well as in novel technologies, such as gene therapy and antibody-drug conjugates. ADAs can start developing in the body with the first dose of a biologic therapy and can render subsequent doses ineffective or unsafe, potentially depriving patients of life-saving therapeutic options and limiting the likelihood of success for many otherwise promising novel biologic drugs and technologies. We believe our SVP technology has the potential to allow many biologic treatments to overcome these limitations. In addition, this technology is designed to be dosed in combination with new and existing therapies without requiring reformulation of the biologics. We intend to build a product pipeline by combining our SVP technology with a range of biologics and also plan to seek collaborations and license agreements to broaden our reach. 
Our lead product candidate, SEL-212, is a combination of a therapeutic uricase enzyme and our SVP technology that is designed to become the first biologic treatment that durably controls uric acid while also dissolving harmful deposits of uric acid in patients with chronic severe gout, a debilitating rare disease with an unmet medical need. We have submitted two investigational new drug applications, or INDs, to the FDA for SEL-212, both of which are active. Each IND lists us as the named sponsor and is indicated for the treatment of chronic gout in adult patients refractory to conventional therapy. SEL-212 is currently in a Phase 2 clinical program in multiple clinical sites in the United States. Based on our Phase 1/2 clinical data available as of the date of this report, we believe that SEL-212 has the potential to control serum uric acid levels and mitigate the formation of ADAs in response to the therapeutic uricase enzyme.
SEL-212 is designed as a monthly treatment for chronic severe gout consisting of SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with pegsiticase, our proprietary pegylated uricase. Our preclinical data indicate that SVP-Rapamycin, when co-administered with pegsiticase, induces antigen-specific immune tolerance to pegsiticase and substantially reduces the formation of associated ADAs. Our Phase 1 data shows that SVP-Rapamycin mitigated the formation of ADAs against pegsiticase after a single dose of SEL-212. We believe that SEL-212 has the potential to offer a uniquely effective treatment for patients with chronic severe gout, while also demonstrating the clinical effectiveness of our SVP technology. We expect our clinical and, if approved, marketing strategy for SEL-212 to initially focus on the estimated 160,000 patients in the United States with chronic severe gout that are being treated by rheumatologists.
In May 2017, we licensed LMB-100, a clinical-stage immunotoxin, from the Center for Cancer Research, or CCR, at the National Cancer Institute, or NCI, part of the National Institutes of Health. LMB-100 contains a potent bacterial toxin targeted to mesothelin, a protein expressed in virtually all mesotheliomas and pancreatic adenocarcinomas and a high percentage of other malignancies, including lung, breast and ovarian cancers. In 2016, CCR initiated dosing in two clinical trials of LMB-100 in patients with mesothelioma and pancreatic cancer, which helped to define the maximum tolerated dose. Initial data indicate that undesired antibody responses to the immunotoxin prevented most patients from completing the intended four treatment cycles. While a precursor to LMB-100 was similarly restricted by immunogenicity despite the concurrent use of potent immunosuppressive drugs, major tumor regression was observed in the two patients who were able to receive more than two cycles of this treatment. These results suggest that the mitigation of immunogenicity may enable more patients to benefit from LMB-100 therapy by potentially increasing the number of treatments that result in significant blood levels of LMB-100. 
3

Based on preclinical models conducted by Selecta and NCI, we believe that the co-administration of SVP-Rapamycin and LMB-100, a product candidate we refer to as SEL-403, has the potential to enable extended treatment with LMB-100 and, therefore, enhance anti-tumor activity. In March 2018, we initiated a Phase 1 trial of SEL-403 in patients with malignant pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma who have undergone at least one regimen of chemotherapy under a cooperative research and development agreement, or CRADA, at NCI. Patients in this non-randomized, open-label dose-escalation trial will receive up to four treatment cycles, each cycle consisting of an initial dose of SVP-Rapamycin and LMB-100 on day 1 of each cycle followed by doses of LMB-100 on day 3 and day 5 of each cycle. The trial, which is expected to enroll up to 18 patients, is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination treatment in the study population. Additional objectives include the measurement of ADAs and an objective response rate assessment. NCI submitted an IND for LMB-100 plus SVP-Rapamycin (SEL-403), which the FDA accepted in December 2017.
We are also applying our SVP technology to mitigate the formation of ADAs when dosing gene therapy, involving gene augmentation, replacement or editing. Gene therapies often use a viral vector, such as an adeno-associated virus, or AAV, vector to place corrective genetic material into cells to treat genetic diseases. One of the key hurdles for the gene therapy field is to overcome immunogenicity against the viral vector, which can manifest itself in three ways. First, cellular immune response to the transduced cells has been associated with liver inflammation and loss of transgene expression. Second, ADAs form in response to the first administration of a gene therapy vector and prevent effective subsequent doses of gene therapy. The ability to provide repeat doses may be particularly important for pediatric patients to receive continued treatment benefit later in life as gene expression wanes due to cellular turnover as patients grow. The ability to re-administer gene therapies also could provide the potential for dose titration and could be advantageous for diseases where the goal is to transfect a high number of cells. Third, pre-existing ADAs that are induced following a natural AAV infection can neutralize the viral vector and block gene transfer. Up to 50% of patients are ineligible for gene therapy due to the presence of pre-existing ADAs. 
Our first proprietary gene therapy program is targeted to treat a rare genetic disease, Methylmalonic Acidemia, or MMA, pursuant to which we are collaborating with a clinical and gene therapy laboratory at the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, and the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and The Schepens Eye Institute, Inc., which we collectively refer to as MEE. We have in-licensed the Anc80 gene therapy vector, or Anc80, from MEE. Anc80 is an engineered vector that has been reported to have limited cross-reactivity to antibodies against wild type AAV serotypes and therefore we believe has the potential to treat patients with pre-existing anti-AAV antibodies. In pre-clinical studies, Anc80 has been observed to be a potent gene therapy vector that has demonstrated the capability of yielding superior gene expression levels in the liver compared to AAV8, a naturally occurring AAV vector that is currently being evaluated in clinical trials. We believe our product candidate has the potential to mitigate the problem of pre-existing immunogenicity to the gene therapy vector by using Anc80 and to prevent undesired immune responses to the vector and transgene that can occur with the first dose of gene therapy by using our SVP technology. In February 2017, we entered into a strategic manufacturing agreement with Lonza Houston, Inc. under which Lonza agreed to produce the Anc80 gene therapy for our MMA program. Under our license agreement with MEE, we also have the exclusive option to develop gene therapies using Anc80 for several additional diseases including lysosomal storage, muscular and genetic metabolic diseases. For more information, see "Licenses and Collaborations - Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary” below.
In addition to developing this proprietary non-immunogenic therapeutic candidate, we intend to continue expanding our proprietary immune tolerance pipeline and pursue out-licensing opportunities for select applications of our SVP technology. In December 2016, we entered into a license agreement, or the Spark License Agreement, with Spark Therapeutics, Inc., or Spark, that provides Spark with exclusive worldwide rights to our SVP technology to research, develop and commercialize gene therapies for Factor VIII, an essential blood clotting protein relevant to the treatment of hemophilia A, which is the initial target under the agreement, as well as exclusive options for up to four additional pre-specified targets. 
We continue to evaluate our strategic options in peanut allergy, celiac disease and type 1 diabetes. We intend to continue our strategy of out-licensing our SVP technology for antigen-specific immune tolerance for applications that are outside our core areas of focus. For more information, see “Licenses and Collaborations - Spark Therapeutics" below. We believe our SVP technology also has the potential to be used for therapies that stimulate the immune system to prevent and treat cancer, infectious diseases and other diseases. In 2017, we initiated a Phase 1 trial to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacodynamic profile of our SVP-nicotine vaccine candidate, which we believe is capable of triggering the production of a high level of anti-nicotine antibodies that bind to the nicotine inhaled by smokers, with the potential to prevent nicotine from crossing the blood-brain barrier, thus avoiding an addictive response. We also have an early-stage research program for a therapeutic vaccine for human papilloma virus, or HPV, associated cancers, and we recently completed a preclinical antibody-based vaccine program for malaria. These programs use our SVP technology to encapsulate an immune-stimulatory agent to stimulate the immune system response to a specific antigen. We have financed these programs primarily through grants. 
4

The following chart summarizes our current SVP product candidate pipeline:
OUR STRATEGY
Our goal is to become the first biopharmaceutical company to develop and commercialize targeted therapies that are designed to modulate the immune system in an antigen-specific manner to effectively and safely treat rare and serious diseases. In addition, we intend to maximize the value of our SVP technology by collaborating with biopharmaceutical companies on programs that can benefit from our technology but that are outside our area of focus. The key elements of our strategy include the following.

• | Advance the development of SEL-212 for the treatment of chronic severe gout. We believe SEL-212 has the potential to become the first biologic treatment that durably controls uric acid while also dissolving harmful deposits of uric acid crystals for a majority of patients with chronic severe gout. We are currently conducting a Phase 1/2 clinical program, comprised of two completed Phase 1 clinical studies and an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial. We expect to commence enrollment for our planned Phase 3 clinical program in 2018 and intend to advance this program through regulatory approval and commercialization, if warranted by clinical trial results. 


• | Leverage SVP-Rapamycin to develop additional novel uses and classes of non-immunogenic biologics. We intend to use our SVP technology to develop a range of proprietary, non-immunogenic biologic therapies. Our current pipeline includes SEL-212 for chronic severe gout, SEL-403 for solid tumors, as well as proprietary gene therapies that could potentially be re-dosed for rare diseases. In addition, we intend to pursue opportunities to co-administer SVP-Rapamycin with other biologic therapies. In each case, SVP-Rapamycin would be evaluated for its potential to mitigate undesired immune response to the biologic therapy with the goal of improving efficacy and/or safety. Our strategy is to develop proprietary treatments for rare and serious diseases by combining SVP-Rapamycin with biologics that have been in- licensed or provided through research collaborations. 


• | Establish infrastructure and capabilities to commercialize our products in rare and orphan diseases. While we believe our SVP technology may be broadly applicable across disease areas, we intend to focus our proprietary efforts on developing and commercializing proprietary SVP-enabled products for rare and serious diseases where there is high unmet medical need. Therapies for treating these diseases require focused commercial efforts and coordination with patient groups and investigators. As our first product candidate, SEL-212, advances toward Phase 3 clinical trials and potential commercialization, we intend to build a commercial infrastructure to capture its full value. 


• | Selectively pursue collaborations and maximize the value of our SVP programs for immune tolerance. In addition to our own proprietary product development efforts, we are in discussions with potential collaborators and licensees to pursue novel new therapies that would utilize our SVP technology. For example, in December 2016, we entered into 

5

the Spark License Agreement to develop gene therapies for certain targets utilizing our SVP technology. For more information, see “Licenses and Collaborations - Spark Therapeutics” below. 

• | Opportunistically utilize our SVP technology to stimulate the immune system to fight disease. We have been utilizing non-dilutive funding and our SVP immune stimulation technology to develop prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines that activate the immune system to fight disease. Our product candidates in this area have included a nicotine vaccine candidate for smoking cessation and relapse prevention, an immunotherapy to treat HPV-associated cancers, and a product candidate for the prevention of malaria. We have developed our program for smoking cessation and relapse prevention with grant funding from the National Institute for Drug Abuse, and for HPV-associated cancers with grant funding from the Skolkovo Foundation. We also recently completed a preclinical malaria program under a sponsored research arrangement with The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 

OVERVIEW OF THE HUMAN IMMUNE SYSTEM
The human immune system is an integrated system of specialized immune cells, cell products and tissues that protect against infectious disease and cancer. The immune system recognizes antigens, which are substances, such as proteins, enzymes or complex sugars. These antigens can be endogenous, or self-antigens, which are produced by the body, or exogenous antigens derived from foreign sources, such as viruses, fungi or bacteria. The human immune system has evolved to recognize and destroy potentially harmful substances. To function effectively, the immune system must discern between harmful antigens and innocuous antigens. The immune system maintains a delicate balance between effector cells, which mount immune responses to antigens that represent potential threats, and regulatory cells, which mitigate undesired and potentially harmful immune responses through immune tolerance. Depending upon the characteristics of the antigen and the context in which the antigen is encountered, the immune system must determine whether to mount a defensive (effector) or regulatory (tolerogenic) immune response.
Antigens are processed in lymphoid organs, such as lymph nodes and the spleen, where the immune system determines whether to mount a defensive or regulatory response through a process called “antigen presentation.” In connection with antigen presentation, dendritic cells process the antigens and present them to T cells. When presented, antigens perceived as harmful induce a stimulatory response that can result in the activation of cytolytic T cells or helper T cells, the latter of which help to induce B cells to produce antibodies. The role of cytolytic T cells is to kill cells that harbor intracellular antigens, such as viruses. The role of antibodies is to neutralize or eliminate extracellular antigens on cell surfaces or in interstitial fluids, such as plasma. Figure 1 below depicts both antigen presentation and the related immune responses.
Figure 1. Antigen Presentation and Related Tolerogenic or Stimulatory Immune Response
There are a number of adverse outcomes that can occur when the immune system mounts an undesired response to an innocuous foreign antigen or a self-antigen. For example, food allergy occurs when the immune system mounts an immune response to innocuous food antigens. Another example of undesired immunogenicity occurs when the immune system is exposed to a biologic treatment, recognizes it as a foreign antigen and instructs the body to mount a defense by forming ADAs to the biologic, which can compromise a therapy’s desired beneficial effect. Undesired immunogenicity is common with biologic therapies, such as in enzyme and protein replacement therapies, and in novel technologies, such as gene therapy and antibody-drug conjugates.
A number of therapies have been developed to modulate an immune response. These therapies fall into two categories:
6


• | Immunosuppressive therapies. Immunosuppressive therapies are designed to suppress the immune system and inhibit an undesired immune response. However, many current therapies are not antigen-specific and, as a result, broadly suppress the immune system leading to undesired side effects that include opportunistic infections, skin cancer and lymphomas. We believe there is an opportunity to develop therapies that instruct the immune system to mitigate the formation of ADAs in an antigen-specific manner and remain tolerant to the specific antigen, thereby mitigating off-target effects of systemic immunosuppression. 


• | Immunostimulatory therapies. Immunostimulatory therapies are designed to stimulate the immune system to prevent or treat infections and cancers. The most common class of immunostimulatory therapies are vaccines, which are designed to simulate the body’s immune system to mount a defensive response to a specific antigen. While traditional vaccines have been successful for the prevention of infectious diseases, there has been limited success in developing therapeutic vaccines for the successful treatment of certain other diseases, including chronic infections and cancer. As a result, we believe there is a need for more effective vaccines to treat these diseases. 

OUR SVP TECHNOLOGY
Our SVP technology is a highly flexible nanoparticle platform, capable of incorporating a wide range of antigens and immunomodulators, allowing us to utilize our SVP products for specific applications across multiple indications. Our SVP technology is based in part on the pioneering research performed by our co-founders at Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, and Brigham and Women’s Hospital, or Brigham. In connection with our company’s founding, we licensed 17 patent families related to several aspects of our SVP technology as applied to nanoparticles for use in vaccines from our co-founders’ institutions pursuant to an agreement with MIT, the party that administers licensing arrangements with respect to patents jointly owned by these institutions. We believe one of the key insights from this research is that nanoparticles are uniquely suited to deliver precise instructions to the immune system as a result of the natural predisposition of the immune system to interrogate nanoparticles, such as viruses. This research led to a portfolio of patents and patent applications covering aspects of our SVP technology, which we have exclusively in-licensed with respect to therapeutic or prophylactic vaccine products or processes. We have aggressively sought to extend and protect the proprietary intellectual property underlying the composition and use of SVP for antigen-specific immunomodulation. For more information, see "Intellectual Property" below. 
We are currently developing our SVP technology for:

• | combination with a uricase enzyme for the treatment of chronic severe gout;


• | combination with a recombinant immunotoxin for the treatment of various solid tumors, including mesothelioma;


• | combination with gene therapies for the treatment of rare diseases;


• | potential application with other marketed products, product candidates in development and novel biologic drugs that would otherwise be too immunogenic to develop; and


• | immune stimulation applications for smoking cessation and relapse prevention and HPV-associated cancers.

Our SVP nanoparticles are designed to remain intact after injection into the body and accumulate selectively in lymphoid organs, which include lymph nodes and the spleen, where the immune response is coordinated. They are designed to be processed by specialized immune cells, such as dendritic cells and other antigen-presenting cells that initiate and regulate immune responses, where they deliver the immunomodulator in a coordinated and targeted manner. Depending on the type of immunomodulator encapsulated in the SVP, our technology is designed to induce either a:

• | tolerogenic response to mitigate the formation of ADAs against a biologic drug or treat allergies and autoimmune diseases; or


• | potent antigen-specific stimulatory response, such as an antibody response to a microbial antigen or a cytolytic T cell response to a tumor antigen.

OUR ANTIGEN-SPECIFIC IMMUNE TOLERANCE PROGRAM
Our antigen-specific SVP tolerance programs utilize SVP-Rapamycin, our biodegradable nanoparticle encapsulating the immunomodulator rapamycin. Rapamycin is a small molecule approved for the prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients. To mitigate the formation of ADAs and induce immune tolerance in the body, we co-administer our SVP-Rapamycin with a free antigen, such as a biologic drug, which is depicted in Figure 2 below.
7

Figure 2. Co-Administration of SVP-Rapamycin with a Biologic Drug
SVP-Rapamycin is co-administered at the beginning of therapy with a biologic drug to mitigate the formation of ADAs without requiring the alteration of the drug or its dose regimen. As a result, we believe our SVP-Rapamycin may provide us with significant opportunities in the areas of immune tolerance and ADA prevention because SVP-Rapamycin can be co-administered at the beginning of therapy with many different biologic drugs. Importantly, each pairing of SVP-Rapamycin with a biologic drug also offers us the opportunity to pursue a distinct proprietary product candidate, which can be separately patented, approved and marketed. SVP-Rapamycin is manufactured under current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, using well-defined commercial operations, which, we believe, further enhances the scalability of our tolerance programs.
During preclinical studies, we observed that delivering an antigen together with SVP-Rapamycin provided the appropriate signals in vivo to induce regulatory T cells, which, in turn, inhibited effector immune responses, such as the formation of ADAs. In our preclinical studies, we observed that SVP-Rapamycin labeled with a fluorescent dye selectively accumulated in lymphoid organs where it was processed by antigen-presenting cells. Figure 3 below depicts a model of how SVP-Rapamycin would enter a lymph node and be taken up by a dendritic cell. We believe that when delivered in the context of our SVP-Rapamycin, both the biologic drug and SVP-Rapamycin are taken up and processed by dendritic cells in a manner that induces regulatory T cells, which can block the activation of helper T cells, mitigating the formation of ADAs.
Figure 3. SVP-Rapamycin and Antigen/Biologic Drug Presentation and Related Immune Tolerance Induction
Limitations of existing therapies
All biologics, even those comprised of human protein sequences, have the potential to induce ADAs. Whether a biologic drug elicits an ADA response depends on both product-specific factors, such as propensity to form aggregates, the route of administration and mechanism of action, as well as patient-specific factors, such as genetics, underlying disease and medications. For instance, many enzyme and protein replacement therapies used in the treatment of rare and serious diseases have a particularly high rate of immunogenicity because patients are genetically deficient in the target protein and, as a result, the therapeutic protein can be recognized as foreign by the patient’s immune system.
8

The formation of ADAs can lead to neutralization of efficacy, modification of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as allergic responses. Immunogenicity remains a significant hurdle for the development of safe and effective biologic treatments and has become a key concern for regulators, as evidenced by over 100 approved biologics that describe immunogenicity in their labels or clinical literature. According to product package inserts, approximately 50 currently marketed biologics report an incidence of ADAs affecting over 20% of patients. Among these biologics are Factor VIII products, such as Advate® (antihemophilic factor) for the treatment of hemophilia A and antibody therapeutics with fully human sequences, such as Humira® (adalimumab). We believe that immunogenicity also is a leading cause of product development failure for biopharmaceutical companies and that this issue is hampering the development of novel platform technologies, such as gene therapy and gene editing. 
Undesired immunogenicity represents a significant hurdle that can hamper the clinical development of new biologic platforms. For example, in gene therapy, viral vectors are required to transport the genetic material into cells. The viral origin of these vectors explains their immunogenicity, which has led drug developers to limit applications to situations where the required frequency and site of administration are conducive to manageable immune responses.
Treatment and product development failure resulting from undesired immunogenicity has been recognized by regulators and patient advocacy organizations. In June 2014, the FDA and the National Organization for Rare Diseases, or NORD, co-sponsored a workshop on undesired immune responses to enzyme replacement therapies and called on the biopharmaceutical industry to take a more proactive approach to addressing immunogenicity to biologics.
Currently, we believe there are no comprehensive solutions to the complications of immunogenicity. Drug developers often stop the development of biologics that show an undesired immune response during preclinical or clinical development. In some cases, biopharmaceutical companies may attempt to reduce undesired immune responses by re-engineering the biologic through protein pegylation or removal of immunogenic epitopes. However, these approaches are limited in their effectiveness. Physicians may try to address the issue of undesired immune responses by increasing the dose of the biologic, which can be prohibitively expensive and may present greater safety concerns, or in life-threatening situations, by using global immunosuppressive combination therapies. We believe that our tolerogenic SVP technology could offer an entirely new and effective treatment alternative for undesired immune responses, including with respect to the formation of ADAs, but potentially also for autoimmune diseases and allergies.
OUR SVP PROGRAMS TO INDUCE ANTIGEN-SPECIFIC IMMUNE TOLERANCE
We believe our SVP technology to induce antigen-specific immune tolerance has a broad range of applications. We are currently pursuing targeted product development strategies for multiple applications in which we believe SVP products could be highly differentiated.

• | Therapeutic enzymes. Therapeutic enzymes are a frequently used class of biologic drugs to treat rare diseases. Through our analysis of biologic drugs, including our preclinical studies, we have observed that enzymes are especially prone to undesired immune responses. Our first product candidate, SEL-212, includes pegsiticase, a pegylated uricase enzyme, which is an example of an immunogenic enzyme for which we are applying SVP-Rapamycin with the intention of improving the enzyme’s efficacy and safety. Other examples of immunogenic enzymes include acid alpha-glucosidase for the treatment of Pompe disease, alpha galactosidase A for the treatment of Fabry’s disease and microbial enzymes such as asparaginase for the treatment of cancers. We intend to seek opportunities to secure supply of and, if appropriate, licenses to these or other enzymes that we would pair with SVP-Rapamycin to enhance their efficacy, safety and use in their treatment of diseases. 


• | Oncology treatments. While a variety of cancer treatments have demonstrated the potential to halt or reverse the course of tumor growth in patients, some of these therapies have proven to be highly immunogenic. One such example is LMB-100, now an investigational immunotoxin developed in collaboration with NCI. The majority of mesothelioma patients treated with an earlier version of LMB-100, called SS1P, experienced dose-limiting immune responses despite the use of potent immunosuppressants. However, the few chemotherapy-refractory mesothelioma patients tolerating more than two treatment cycles in this Phase 1 clinical trial showed marked antitumor responses. We and NCI have observed in preclinical studies that SEL-403, consisting of SVP-Rapamycin dosed in combination with LMB-100, prevented the formation of anti-LMB-100 antibodies and allowed for the administration of at least four treatment cycles in mouse models, representing a meaningful increase in the number of effective doses that could be administrated without the onset of neutralizing antibodies. Further, in a tumor model, the addition of SVP-Rapamycin to the regimen showed a beneficial effect on controlling tumor growth. We in-licensed LMB-100 from NCI in 2017. In March 2018, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of SEL-403, consisting of SVP-Rapamycin and LBM-100 in patients with malignant pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma who have undergone at least one regimen of chemotherapy. 

9


• | Gene therapies. We believe gene therapies have the potential to address key unmet medical needs for many rare genetic diseases, but undesired immune responses to the viral vectors used for gene replacement, augmentation and editing may be restricting their broader use. Through our analysis of genetic diseases, we have identified applications and patient segments that we believe would benefit from our SVP technology. We intend to develop proprietary SVP-Rapamycin-enabled non-immunogenic gene therapies with viral vectors such as the Anc80 vector that we have licensed from MEE. We believe our product candidates have the potential to mitigate the problem of pre-existing immunogenicity to the gene therapy vector by using Anc80 and to prevent undesired immune responses to the vector and transgene that can occur with the first dose of gene therapy by using our SVP technology. Our initial areas of focus include lysosomal storage, genetic muscular and genetic metabolic diseases. We believe we are the first company to systematically pursue the development of gene therapy product candidates with the goal of enabling repeat administration. We have engaged third parties with experience in gene therapy and rare diseases to support the development of our proprietary products. We also have licensed our SVP-Rapamycin technology to Spark Therapeutics for the development of gene therapies for certain pre-specified targets. For more information, see "Licenses and Collaborations - Spark Therapeutics". 


• | Other products and product candidates affected by undesired immune responses. We have generated preclinical data which we believe suggests a broad potential benefit of SVP for immune tolerance. For many biologic drugs, undesired immune responses limit efficacy and cause safety concerns. This includes TNF-alpha-specific monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and coagulation factor replacement therapies for the treatment of hemophilia. We intend to out-license SVP-Rapamycin technology for use with other products that are outside our focus to larger biopharmaceutical companies. We believe our SVP technology may also be of interest to biopharmaceutical companies with novel biologic development concepts or product candidates in clinical development that have demonstrated initial efficacy but are experiencing issues with safety or sustained efficacy due to inhibitory ADAs. 

SEL-212 for the treatment of chronic severe gout
Overview
SEL-212 is our proprietary product candidate for the treatment of chronic severe gout. SEL-212 consists of SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with pegsiticase, a pegylated uricase. We believe that our SEL-212 has the potential to offer a uniquely effective treatment for patients with chronic severe gout, while also demonstrating the clinical effectiveness of our SVP technology platform. Pegylated uricase, in the form of the approved drug Krystexxa, has demonstrated the ability to significantly reduce uric acid levels and dissolve the harmful uric acid crystals that are the manifestations of gout upon initial treatment in patients. However, we believe broad commercial adoption has not been achieved primarily due to undesired immune responses. Based on our preclinical and Phase 1/2 clinical studies, we believe that by leveraging our SVP technology to mitigate the formation of ADAs following the dosing of our pegylated uricase, pegsiticase, SEL-212 could enable the effective removal of uric acid crystals in a majority of patients.
The market for gout therapy
Gout is a painful and potentially disabling form of arthritis resulting from excess accumulation of uric acid and deposition of uric acid crystals in joints and soft tissues, including those of the kidney and heart, causing harmful inflammation. Gout is caused by an overproduction of uric acid, a natural byproduct of purine metabolism that is produced after consumption of food with high levels of purines such as seafood, meat, yeast and certain vegetables, and/or an inability of the kidneys to excrete adequate amounts of uric acid from the body. High concentrations of serum uric acid lead to formation of uric acid crystals in joints and tissues, causing pain, inflammation and joint damage, and increase the risk for other conditions, including cardiovascular, cardiometabolic, joint and kidney disease.
There are approximately 8.3 million and 10.0 million gout sufferers in the United States and the European Union, respectively. The first line of treatments for gout are Allopurinol and Febuxostat. Both drugs are Xanthine Oxidase inhibitors, oral drugs that reduce the synthesis of uric acid. Lesinurad and Probenecid are oral gout drugs that increase the rate of excretion of uric acid through the kidneys, and are used almost exclusively in combination with these first line treatments. While these oral treatments are designed to prevent the formation of uric acid deposits, they are not well suited to reduce existing uric acid deposits in joints and tissues.
Gout is a spectrum of disease that is typically diagnosed through the measurement of uric acid levels in the blood and/or the identification of uric acid crystals from a visible tophus. High concentrations of serum uric acid increase the risk of co-morbidities, including cardiovascular, cardiometabolic, joint and kidney disease. Patients who are unable to reduce their serum uric acids levels below 6 mg/dl with oral drugs are diagnosed with refractory gout. Patients who have uric acid deposits, or tophi, in soft tissues, joints, the urinary tract, the digestive tract or the heart and a persistently elevated uric acid level when left untreated are diagnosed with chronic tophaceous gout. Tophi are a source of inflammation and pain. Chronic severe gout 
10

constitutes a subset of gout patients exhibiting chronic high serum uric acid levels and painful and damaging uric acid deposits. In total, we estimate that there are approximately 160,000 chronic severe gout patients in the U.S. who are seen by rheumatologists. 
Figure 4 below illustrates the association between gout and diseases of the heart, vascular system, metabolic process, kidney and joints.
Figure 4. Co-Morbidities Associated with Gout
Based on our preclinical studies, clinical data from our Phase 1b and ongoing Phase 2 trials and market research, we believe that SEL-212 may potentially address two key unmet needs in the treatment of chronic severe gout: the durable control of serum uric acid levels and the elimination of painful and damaging uric acid deposits.
Our product development strategy is designed to address these unmet medical needs while improving the dosing regimen to a once-monthly treatment. We plan to initially seek regulatory approval for the treatment of refractory gout by demonstrating reduction of serum uric acid levels below the FDA-approved endpoint and clinical guideline of 6 mg/dl. We plan for this program to include patients with chronic tophaceous gout. During our market research, physicians expressed their preference for monthly dosing as well as for a subcutaneous route of administration. In response to this preference, we intend to develop SEL-212 as a monthly intravenous treatment and intend to evaluate the development of a subcutaneous formulation.
We believe that SEL-212 is ideally suited for patients with chronic severe gout. If approved, we plan to position SEL-212 as a debulking therapy for gout that would remove harmful uric acid deposits over a limited number of monthly doses and allow patients to switch to oral gout maintenance therapy unless and until such patients experience a subsequent manifestation of uric acid deposits at which time a new course of SEL-212 would be required. We do not believe that oral therapy would completely prevent the build-up over time of uric acid crystals in patients with a history of chronic tophaceous gout. As a result, we anticipate that SEL-212 treatment, if approved, would be required intermittently in such patients. We believe that, in contrast to Krystexxa, SEL-212 may be effective in removing harmful uric acid deposits in most patients with chronic tophaceous gout over multiple courses of treatment in their lifetimes. Figure 5 below depicts this positioning strategy as a sample diagram illustrating what we believe to be a shift in the treatment paradigm for chronic severe gout.
11

Figure 5. Sample Treatment Course for Chronic Severe Gout.
We expect our clinical and marketing strategy for SEL-212 to initially focus on the estimated 160,000 patients in the United States with chronic severe gout who are being treated by rheumatologists. If SEL-212 is approved, we expect our strategy for marketing SEL-212 to rheumatologists will be to promote a switch from oral therapies to SEL-212 for patients with serum uric acid levels chronically above 6 mg/dl or those diagnosed with chronic tophaceous gout. Some rheumatologists have begun to utilize imaging technologies recommended by the guideline writing associations for rheumatology, including the American College of Rheumatology and the European League Against Rheumatism. In particular, dual energy computed tomography, or DECT, can visualize uric acid deposits in joints and tissues as depicted in Figure 6 below in green. DECT has the potential to become an important tool to manage chronic severe gout and to visualize the efficacy of SEL-212. We believe DECT imaging use could increase the market for SEL-212 by better assessing the severity of gout prior to treatment and by demonstrating the impact of efficacy following treatment. 
Figure 6. Tophi / Uric Acid Deposits (shown in green) Visualized Using Dual Energy Computed Tomography Imaging
12

SEL-212 components
Our SEL-212 consists of SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with pegsiticase. Our SVP-Rapamycin consists of nanoparticles composed of poly(D,L-lactide), or PLA, and poly(D,L-lactide)-block-poly(ethylene-glycol), or PLA-PEG, encapsulating rapamycin. Our pegsiticase consists of a uricase modified with poly(ethylene-glycol), or PEG. The components of SEL-212 are depicted in Figure 7 below.
Figure 7. Components of SEL-212
Our pegsiticase is a pegylated version of the therapeutic enzyme uricase, which we have licensed from Shenyang Sunshine Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or 3SBio, exclusively for all markets, except Japan and Greater China, and exclusively for Japan only in combination with our SVP technology. Uricase is an enzyme endogenous to all mammals, except for humans and certain primates, which converts uric acid to the more soluble metabolite, allantoin. There is a natural limit to the amount of uric acid that can be excreted by the kidneys, which decreases with age and can be reduced by some medications. By converting uric acid to allantoin, uricase provides an additional way for the body to reduce uric acid. Unlike other gout drugs, uricase is effective in significantly and promptly lowering uric acid levels in virtually all patients who do not form ADAs.
SVP-Rapamycin is our biodegradable nanoparticle that encapsulates rapamycin, also referred to as sirolimus. Rapamycin is the active ingredient of Rapamune, an immunosuppressant which has extensive prior use in humans and is currently FDA-approved as a prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients aged 13 or older. PLA is part of the broader poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), or PLGA, family of biodegradable polymers that have more than 30 years of commercial use and are formulation components in a number of approved products. Polyethylene glycol, or PEG, has been widely studied in clinical trials and is also a formulation component in many approved biologic products. In our preclinical studies, SVP-Rapamycin co-administered at the initiation of treatment with a biologic drug substantially reduced the formation of associated ADAs and induced antigen-specific immune tolerance to the biologic drug.
Clinical development
For chronic severe gout, we are executing a clinical development program that seeks to demonstrate SEL-212’s ability to durably reduce serum uric acid levels below 6.0 mg/dL. The saturation point of uric acid, or the maximum level at which uric acid will remain soluble in plasma, is 6.8 mg/dL. When uric acid rises above 6.8 mg/dL, monosodium urate microcrystals begin to form and settle in joints and other tissues, creating an inflammatory response that is diagnosed as gout. This inflammatory response is the source of highly debilitating gout flares experienced by patients. When serum uric acid levels drop below the level of 6.0 mg/dL, microcrystals will begin to dissolve and, over time, gout symptoms will resolve. Therefore, a serum uric acid level of less than 6.0 mg/dL is defined as the target for uric acid-lowering treatments by organizations such as the American College of Rheumatology and the European League Against Rheumatism. The FDA and EMA have also established the maintenance of serum uric acid levels below 6 mg/dL as the primary endpoint in clinical trials for urate lowering therapies. Available oral gout therapies are designed to prevent the formation of uric acid microcrystals but are not effective in rapidly removing existing crystalized deposits. In severe gout patients who have significant deposits of monosodium urate crystals, known as tophi, it is of clinical benefit to significantly reduce serum uric acid levels (i.e. below 0.1 mg/dL) for a period of time in order to rapidly dissolve the monosodium urate crystals. 
We expect to conduct five clinical studies in more than 400 patients with gout or elevated levels of serum uric acid. We initiated our clinical program in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2015 with a multicenter Phase 1a trial of pegsiticase in patients with serum uric acid levels greater than 6.0 mg/dL. We completed the patient treatment portion of our Phase 1a trial in November 2015, initiated a Phase 1b trial in December 2015 and reported data from both Phase 1 clinical trials in December 2016. In our Phase 1b trial, we demonstrated that a single dose of SEL-212 was capable of lowering serum uric acid levels below 0.1 mg/dL for at least 30 days, which is correlated with the inhibition of uricase-specific ADAs. We initiated patient recruitment in an open label multi-dose Phase 2 clinical trial of SEL-212 in patients with symptomatic gout and elevated uric acid levels in October 2016. This study is being conducted at multiple clinical sites in the U.S. After an end-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, we expect that we will be required to conduct two replicate Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with chronic refractory gout. We plan 
13

to leverage our experience in chronic refractory gout for additional but similar clinical trials to support the treatment of patients with chronic severe gout, with or without visible tophi.
Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials
SEL-212 is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical program that includes a Phase 1a and Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with high uric acid levels as well as a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with symptomatic gout and high uric acid levels. Each Phase 1 clinical trial was designed with the primary objective to evaluate the safety and tolerability of SEL-212 and its individual components. Additional objectives of the Phase 1 clinical trials included identifying a pegsiticase dose that was capable of lowering serum uric acid levels over a period of one month, evaluating the immunogenicity of pegsiticase after a single dose and demonstrating that SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with pegsiticase reduced uric acid levels and mitigated the formation of uricase-specific ADAs. The Phase 2 clinical trial is evaluating the effect of multiple doses over an extended period of time on serum uric acid and the formation of ADAs in patients. We received final data from both Phase 1 clinical trials in December 2016. We commenced patient recruitment in the Phase 2 clinical trial in October 2016.
Phase 1a clinical trial
The Phase 1a clinical trial for SEL-212 was conducted at multiple sites in the United States and was a single ascending dose trial of pegsiticase alone in 22 patients with elevated serum uric acid levels greater than 6 mg/dl. At the outset of the trial, each of five cohorts received a single intravenous infusion of pegsiticase at ascending dose levels. We monitored the patients during a 30-day period post-infusion. We commenced enrollment of the clinical trial in the second quarter of 2015 and completed the treatment portion of the trial in November 2015. We observed that pegsiticase demonstrated no serious adverse events, or SAEs, and was well tolerated at the five dose levels tested. Additionally, we observed that pegsiticase rapidly reduced and sustained average serum uric acid levels below 6 mg/dl for each cohort for 14 to 30 days, depending on the dose level. Consistent with our preclinical studies in animals, pegsiticase induced uricase-specific ADAs in all patients with varying levels in this Phase 1a trial.
Figure 8 below indicates the serum uric acid and uricase-specific ADA levels for each patient in Cohort #3 of the Phase 1a clinical trial, which received a single dose of 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase. The serum uric acid levels were measured at baseline and days seven, 14, 21 and 30 and uricase-specific ADA levels at baseline and days seven, 14 and 30 following the single intravenous injection of pegsiticase. We did not measure uricase-specific ADA levels at day 21 in the Phase 1a clinical trial. Patient number two in this cohort developed a relatively low level uricase-specific ADA titer of 40 and maintained uric acid levels below 0.5 mg/dL through the thirtieth day after dosing. By contrast, the remaining four patients in the cohort developed levels of uricase-specific ADAs greater than 1,000 titer and uric acid levels above 5 mg/dL by the thirtieth day after dosing. Based on the results from our Phase 1a clinical trial, we observed that pegsiticase at the 0.4 mg/kg dose is capable of achieving and maintaining a reduction of serum uric acid below the target of 6 mg/dL for a 30-day period in the absence of inhibitory uricase-specific ADAs.
Figure 8. Phase 1a Clinical Trial: Serum Uric Acid and Uricase-Specific ADA Levels of the Third Cohort
Based on our analysis of the Phase 1a clinical trial data, we selected the pegsiticase dose of 0.4 mg/kg from Cohort #3 of the Phase 1a clinical trial for further study in the Phase 1b clinical trial.
Phase 1b clinical trial
In December 2015, we initiated our Phase 1b clinical trial at multiple sites in the United States. The clinical trial enrolled 63 patients with serum uric acid levels greater than 6 mg/dl. One group of five patients received a single 0.4 mg/kg dose of pegsiticase alone, which we refer to as the Pegsiticase Cohort. Four groups of patients, each containing two placebo-control patients and five test article patients, received a placebo or a single intravenous infusion of SVP‑Rapamycin alone at the following ascending dose levels: 0.03 mg/kg, 0.1 mg/kg, 0.3 mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg, which we refer to collectively as the 
14

SVP‑Rapamycin Cohorts. Four groups of patients received a single intravenous infusion of SVP‑Rapamycin at ascending dose levels of 0.03 mg/kg (5 patients), 0.1 mg/kg (10 patients), 0.15 mg/kg (5 patients) or 0.3 mg/kg (5 patients) with a fixed dose of pegsiticase of 0.4 mg/kg, which we collectively call the SEL-212 cohorts. All patients were followed for at least 30 days after their initial dose. 
Figure 9 below depicts the serum uric acid levels of Pegsiticase Cohort (depicted in red symbols), the SVP‑Rapamycin Cohorts (depicted in blue symbols), and the SEL‑212 Cohorts (depicted in green symbols) from the Phase 1b clinical trial. Serum uric acid levels were measured at baseline and days seven, 14, 21, 30 and longer for some patients that maintained serum uric acid control at day 21. As expected, SVP‑Rapamycin alone had no relevant effect on reducing serum uric acid levels across the SVP‑Rapamycin Cohorts, as such levels remained relatively constant during the 30‑day period. Patients in the Pegsiticase Cohort showed an immediate drop in uric acid levels after dosing, with uric acid levels returning close to or above baseline levels by day 21 in four of the five patients, similar to what was observed in Cohort #3 in the Phase 1A study. In contrast, patients in the SEL-212 Cohort receiving the lowest dose of SVP‑Rapamycin (0.03 mg/kg) co-administered with pegsiticase (0.4 mg/kg), showed four out of five patients maintaining serum uric acid levels below 6 mg/dL through day 21 after dosing. SEL-212 patients receiving SVP-Rapamycin at 0.1 mg/kg co-administered with 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase, showed seven out of 10 patients maintained levels of serum uric acid of less than 0.1 mg/dl through day 30. SEL-212 patients receiving SVP-Rapamycin at 0.15 mg/kg co-administered with 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase, showed all five patients maintaining levels of serum uric acid of less than 6 mg/dL through day 30. Finally, SEL-212 patients receiving SVP-Rapamycin at 0.3 mg/kg c- administered with 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase, showed all five patients maintaining levels of serum uric acid of less than 0.1 mg/dL through day 30. These results indicate that SEL-212 showed a dose-dependent reduction in serum uric acid levels.

Figure 9. Phase 1b Clinical Trial: Uric Acid Levels Across All Phase 1b Cohorts
Figure 10 below depicts the serum uric acid levels at day 30 next to the corresponding day 30 uricase-specific ADA titer for all patients in the Pegsiticase Cohort and in the SEL-212 Cohorts at the three higher dose levels. Four of the five patients treated with 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase alone showed their serum uric return to baseline by day 30 and all five showed uricase specific ADA titers greater than 1000. Seven of 10 SEL-212 patients treated with 0.1 mg/kg SVP-Rapamycin and 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase showed serum uric acid levels <0.1 mg/dL with corresponding low or negative uricase specific ADA titers at day 30. All five SEL-212 patients treated with 0.15 mg/kg SVP-Rapamycin and 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase showed serum uric acid below 6 mg/dL at day 30. One patient developed uricase specific ADA titers greater than 1000 but still maintained his serum uric acid below 
15

the target threshold of 6 mg/dL at day 30. The other four patients showed no ADA titers and had serum uric acid levels <0.1 mg/kg. Finally all five SEL-212 patients treated with 0.3 mg/kg SVP-Rapamycin and 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase showed serum uric acid <0.1mg/dL at day 30 with corresponding low or negative ADA titers. The one patient with an ADA titer of 120 at baseline showed the same titer at baseline and at each time point tested, indicating that this patient had pre-existing low titer of antibody that was cross-reactive with pegsiticase at baseline. These results indicate that SEL-212 can mitigate the formation of uricase-specific ADAs which correlates with sustained control of serum uric acid levels through at least day 30 after a single dose.
Figure 10. Comparison of Phase 1b Uric Acid and Uricase‑Specific ADA Levels
Certain patients in the SEL-212 Cohort were requested to return for additional visits on days 37, 44, and/or 51 because their serum uric acid levels were still under control (< 6mg/dL) at day 21. Not all patients were able to return for the additional visits. The data for those who could return are in included in Figure 11 below. The data show that uric acid levels eventually return to baseline, as expected after a single dose of pegsiticase. Importantly, no emergence of ADAs was detected in those patients who exhibited low or no ADA titers at day 30. These data suggest that the treatment with SVP-Rapamycin could control immune responses to pegsiticase for up to 51 days after dosing. The data also support monthly dosing in the Phase 2 multiple dose trial of SEL-212.
Figure 11. Comparison of Phase 1b Uric Acid and Uricase‑Specific ADA Levels
Figure 12 below presents a non-head-to-head comparison of the activity of selected dose levels of SEL-212 (0.1, 0.15, and 0.3 mg/kg SVP-Rapamycin + 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase) and the Pegsiticase Cohort of the Phase 1b clinical trial with data from two replicate, randomized, double‑blind, placebo‑controlled clinical trials of Krystexxa as reported in the Journal of the American 
16

Medical Association in 2011. These two Krystexxa clinical trials included 85 patients who received biweekly doses of Krystexxa, 84 patients who received monthly doses of Krystexxa and 43 patients who received a placebo. Of the Krystexxa‑treated patients that were considered responders, as defined by the maintenance of uric acid levels below 6 mg/dL for 80% of the time at months three and six, the mean uric acid levels in patients on the biweekly dose regimen were more meaningfully and consistently improved than patients on the monthly dose regimen. Krystexxa has been approved for the treatment of refractory gout on a biweekly dose regimen whereas the monthly dose regimen of Krystexxa has not been approved for marketing. The graph on the left in Figure 14 below depicts the data for the four-week period after the first dose of Krystexxa from the cohorts of patients in the Krystexxa clinical trials who received monthly doses.
The placebo control patients, indicated in open circles in Figure 12 below, had uric acid levels above 6 mg/dl for the entire four weeks. The Krystexxa‑treated patients that went on to become responders are indicated in black circles. The Krystexxa‑treated patients that went on to become non‑responders, as defined by the inability to maintain uric acid levels below 6 mg/dl for 80% of the time at months three and six, are indicated in black triangles. Only 35% of Krystexxa‑treated patients in the monthly dosing cohorts were classified as responders. Of the patients that received monthly doses, it is notable that, even at four weeks, the mean uric acid levels were above 6 mg/dl in the non‑responders, representing 65% of patients, and were above 4 mg/dL in the responders. While not depicted in Figure 12 below, 89% of all Krystexxa‑treated patients developed ADAs. In comparison, the middle graph in Figure 12 below depicts data from patients treated with pegsiticase alone of the Phase 1b clinical trial, indicated in red. The overall kinetics of serum uric acid levels following a single dose of pegsiticase is qualitatively similar to that observed in the monthly Krystexxa study. In contrast, patients of the Phase 1b clinical trial treated with a single dose of SEL-212 (0.1, 0.15, or 0.3 mg/kg SVP-Rapamycin + 0.4 mg/kg pegsiticase), and indicated in green, maintained levels of serum uric acid well below the target threshold of 6.0 mg/dL through day 30. Patients in the Phase 1b clinical trial, treated with SVP‑Rapamycin alone and indicated in blue, experienced no significant reduction in uric acid levels, as such levels remained relatively constant over the 30-day period.
Figure 12. Retrospective Comparison of the Activity of Krystexxa, Pegsiticase, and SEL‑212 After a Single Dose
While we believe the above comparison is useful in evaluating the results of SEL-212 Cohorts of the Phase 1b clinical trial, our Phase 1b clinical trial and the Krystexxa clinical trials were separate trials conducted by different investigators at different sites. In addition, there were substantial differences, including, for example, that the Krystexxa clinical trials were double‑blind trials involving a substantial number of patients with refractory gout while our Phase 1b clinical trial evaluated SEL‑212 in an unblinded manner in a small number of patients with elevated uric acid levels. Moreover, we could only compare the efficacy of SEL-212 with the four‑week period following the first injection of Krystexxa as SEL-212 has not yet been evaluated in a multi-dose clinical trial. In this regard, we have not conducted a head‑to‑head comparison of SEL-212 and Krystexxa in a clinical trial. Results of a head-to-head comparison may differ significantly from those set forth in Figure 12 above. In addition, because our Phase 1b clinical trial and the Krystexxa clinical trials were separate trials and because Cohort #6 of our Phase 1b clinical trial involved only five patients, differences between the results of our Phase 1b clinical trial and the two Krystexxa clinical trials may not be statistically or clinically meaningful. For these reasons, investors should not place undue weight on the comparative information set forth above, including in Figure 12. Based on our observations from the Phase 1b clinical trial data that SEL‑212 was capable of controlling uric acid levels for at least 30 days in patients treated with SEL-212 at SVP-Rapamycin dose levels of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.3 mg/kg, we believe SEL‑212 has the potential to maintain low uric acid levels with monthly dosing, which we plan to test in the Phase 2 clinical trial.
At the completion of our Phase 1b program for SEL-212 we had dosed a total of 64 patients in the trial with either SEL-212 (SVP‑Rapamycin and pegsiticase), SVP‑Rapamycin alone, pegsiticase alone or placebo. The median serum acid level of 
17

patients enrolled was 7.3 mg/dL, with a mean of 7.4 mg/dL at baseline. Patients presented with an average of 5.3 co-morbidities, such as hypertension and diabetes. 
We have generally observed that SEL‑212 and its components, SVP‑Rapamycin and pegsiticase, have been well tolerated in this patient population. There were a total of six SAEs in the Phase 1b trial. Of the six SAEs, three were determined to not to be related to study drug by investigators. Of the remaining three SAEs that were determined to possibly or likely be related to study drug, two were cases of stomatitis that occurred at the highest dose of SVP-Rapamycin tested (0.5 mg/kg), leading us to define 0.3 mg/kg as the maximum tolerated dose of SVP-Rapamycin in this patient population. The remaining SAE was a case of drug hypersensitivity that occurred at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg of SVP-rapamycin in combination with 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase. In all cases, the patient fully-recovered from the SAE without residual effects. 
Phase 2 clinical trial
In the fourth quarter of 2016, we began enrolling patients with symptomatic gout and elevated serum uric acid levels in an open-label, multiple ascending dose Phase 2 clinical trial of SEL-212. The primary and secondary endpoints for this trial include safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and reduction of serum uric acid and ADA levels. We are also collecting data regarding flares and other patient-related observations. We are enrolling patients in multiple ascending dose cohorts with the primary goal of identifying the dose regimens to advance into our planned Phase 3 clinical program.
As of March 9, 2018, a total of 111 patients had been dosed in the Phase 2 trial at 15 active U.S. clinical sites. Dosing had been completed in an initial eight cohorts in the trial. The following is a summary of clinical activity from the trial as defined by the primary clinical endpoint (i.e., serum uric acid levels below 6 mg/dL): 

• | Control and Low SVP-Rapamycin Dose Cohorts (cohorts receiving five monthly doses of pegsiticase alone or three monthly doses of 0.2 mg/kg or 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase + 0.05 mg/kg of SVP-Rapamycin followed by two monthly doses of pegsiticase alone): Dosing of patients in the control cohorts receiving pegsiticase alone was stopped early due to a loss of clinical activity caused by the immunogenicity of the enzyme. Clinical activity was lost by week 12 in the majority of patients receiving pegsiticase in combination with the 0.05 mg/kg dose of SVP-Rapamycin.


• | Mid SVP-Rapamycin Dose Cohorts (cohorts receiving three monthly doses of 0.2 mg/kg or 0.4 mg/kg of pegsiticase + 0.08 or 0.10 mg/kg of SVP-Rapamycin followed by two monthly doses of pegsiticase alone): A majority of patients in these cohorts maintained clinical activity while receiving the combination therapy through week 12. These results are consistent with the level of clinical activity observed through day 30 at a similar SEL-212 dose level in our Phase 1b trial. At the 0.1 mg/kg dose level, half of the patients that maintained clinical activity through week 12 also maintained clinical activity through week 20.


• | Higher SVP-Rapamycin Dose Cohorts (cohorts receiving three monthly doses of pegsiticase +0.125 or 0.15 mg/kg of SVP-Rapamycin followed by two monthly doses of pegsiticase alone): These cohorts were fully enrolled as of March 9, 2018, and we expect to present initial data at a medical conference in the first half of April 2018.

Data from the ongoing trial suggest that ADA levels are strongly correlated with serum uric acid levels. We have observed that SVP-Rapamycin has reduced the formation of ADAs in a dose-dependent manner, which we believe enables pegsiticase to maintain its clinical activity for extended durations as compared to pegsiticase administered without SVP-Rapamycin.
Approximately 24% of patients receiving SEL-212 reported a gout flare during their first month of the trial. This is followed by a decline in flare rates during the remainder of the therapy. By comparison, 50% of patients reported a flare during the first month in the control cohorts receiving pegsiticase alone before treatment was stopped due to loss of efficacy and safety.
SEL-212 has been generally well tolerated at clinically active doses following repeated administrations in the trial. As of October 23, 2017, 11 SAEs had been reported, four of which were reported to be not related or unlikely related to study drug and seven of which were infusion reactions. All SAEs were successfully treated and resolved without further issues. 
In February 2018, we began enrolling patients in the current Phase 2 trial who are expected to receive five monthly doses of SVP-Rapamycin in combination with pegsiticase. The patients will be receiving SVP-Rapamycin doses ranging from 0.1mg/kg-0.15mg/kg in combination with 0.2mg/kg of pegsiticase. We expect to present data from these patients at a medical meeting in the third quarter of 2018.
Our SVP-Rapamycin program for immunotoxins
In 2016, we entered a research collaboration with NCI to investigate the ability of SVP-Rapamycin to mitigate ADAs to LMB-100, a second-generation immunotoxin being developed for the treatment of solid cancers. In 2017, we in-licensed LMB-100 from NCI. LMB-100 is a fusion protein comprised of an antibody fragment targeting mesothelin, a protein over-expressed in mesothelioma, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, and other solid tumors fused via a cleavable linker to an engineered fragment of the Pseudomonas exotoxin A protein. Mesothelioma is a mesothelin-expressing cancer 
18

predominantly affecting the layer of tissue lining the lungs and chest wall. This type of cancer has been linked to asbestos exposure. According to the American Cancer Society, approximately 3,000 people are diagnosed with this disease each year in the United States. The prognosis for mesothelioma is very poor, with an average life expectancy of 12-18 months following diagnosis. 
A first-generation immunotoxin, termed SS1P, was highly immunogenic in mesothelioma patients, with most patients in a Phase 1 clinical trial limited to one or two cycles of treatment, even with concomitant immunosuppressive therapy [Hassan et al., Sci Trans Med 2013, 5:208ra147]. However, those patients that could tolerate more than two cycles showed major tumor regression. These data suggested that further mitigation of ADAs may be beneficial. 
NCI worked with external collaborators to reengineer SS1P in order to make the immunotoxin less immunogenic. This work resulted in LMB-100, which was then utilized in Phase 1 clinical trials in pancreatic cancer and malignant mesothelioma. In these trials, ADAs to the immunotoxin again prevented most patients from receiving the intended four treatment cycles. 
Preclinical data generated at NCI showed that the addition of SVP-Rapamycin to the treatment cycles of LMB-100 inhibited the formation of ADAs and enabled dosing of at least four cycles of treatment in mice. Furthermore, therapeutic treatment of mice pre-sensitized with LMB-100 to induce ADAs showed a drop in ADA titers after being challenged with LMB-100 in combination with SVP-Rapamycin. In contrast, mice challenged with LMB-100 alone showed a dramatic boost in titers, while mice challenged with saline showed no significant change in ADA titers. Next, the effects of LMB-100 alone or in combination with SVP-Rapamycin were tested in immunocompetent mice with pre-existing ADAs and bearing syngeneic mesothelioma tumors expressing human mesothelin. LMB-100 alone had no effect on tumor growth whereas, SVP-Rapamycin administered with the first dose of each cycle of LMB-100 inhibited tumor growth. Importantly, SVP-Rapamycin alone did not enhance tumor growth in immunocompetent mice [Mazor et al., PNAS 2018, 10.1073/pnas. 1717063115]. 
In March 2018, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of SVP-Rapamycin and LMB-100 in patients with malignant pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma who have undergone at least one regimen of chemotherapy.
Our SVP-Rapamycin programs for immune tolerance in gene therapy
Overview
Although gene therapy has made significant progress over the last several years, it faces certain limitations due to undesired immunogenicity to either the AAV vector or the encoded transgene. This undesired immunogenicity frequently exists prior to the gene therapy or is induced with the first dose. Once an antibody response to the AAV vector exists, it is likely to interfere with the efficacy of subsequent administration of the AAV vector. For naturally occurring types of AAV such as AAV1 to AAV10, patients can have prior exposure to the naturally occurring virus, which leads to the presence of pre-existing antibodies, or pre-existing immunity. The presence of pre-existing immunity is an exclusion criterion for most clinical gene therapy studies conducted with naturally occurring AAV vectors. Up to 50% of potential gene therapy patients can have pre-existing antibodies, depending on the treated patient population and the AAV strain. 
For those patients who are able to receive a dose of gene therapy, gene vector-specific ADAs frequently occur and have been found to prevent the AAV vector from reaching its target cell. It is unknown exactly how long these neutralizing ADAs prevent redosing of gene therapy. However, it has been observed in studies with animals and humans that high titer AAV-specific ADAs develop and persist for more than 10 years, preventing vector readministration. In addition, cellular immune responses have been found to correlate with liver inflammation and loss of gene expression. 
Because of the induction of lasting antibodies against AAV, we believe many gene therapy companies have focused on the single localized dose in diseases of the eye and central nervous system for which immunogenicity is perceived to be less of an issue. We believe that many gene therapy applications may require or would benefit from multiple doses, especially therapies designed to treat diseases via intravenous administration. Some of these rare genetic deficiencies are best treated when patients are infants or small children in order to prevent developmental defects. However, pediatric patients may have a higher need for repeat dosing due to higher cell turnover as the patient grows. Accordingly, we believe that a solution enabling repeat dosing would significantly expand the number of diseases and patients that could be treated with gene therapies. 
In collaboration with Genethon, a not-for-profit company focusing on gene therapies, we have generated and presented preclinical data in mice in which we observed the ability of SVP-Rapamycin to mitigate the formation of ADAs to AAV-based gene therapy, thereby enabling repeat dosing of the AAV vector in these mice. Preclinical data generated in connection with this collaboration also suggest the ability of SVP-Rapamycin to mitigate the formation of ADAs to AAV capsids in nonhuman primates. We believe these results further indicate that SVP-Rapamycin may have the potential to mitigate undesired immune responses and enable repeat intravenous administration of gene therapies. 
19

In 2016, we in-licensed Anc80, a gene therapy vector, from MEE. In preclinical studies, Anc80 has been observed to be a potent gene therapy vector that has demonstrated the capability of yielding superior gene expression levels in the liver compared to AAV8, a naturally occurring AAV vector that is currently being evaluated in clinical trials. Anc80 is an engineered vector that has been reported to have limited cross-reactivity to antibodies against wild type AAV serotypes and therefore has
the potential to treat patients with pre-existing anti-AAV antibodies [Zinn et al, 2015, Cell Reports 12: 1056-1068].
By combining SVP-Rapamycin and Anc80, we intend to enable the development of highly differentiated gene therapies with the goal of (i) treating patients with pre-existing ADAs to naturally occurring AAV, (ii) improving gene therapy safety by mitigating cellular immune responses, and (iii) allowing for repeat gene therapy dosing. 
In collaboration with the clinical and gene therapy laboratories at the NIH and MEE, we are developing SEL-302, a product candidate utilizing the Anc80 vector in combination with SVP-Rapamycin for the treatment of methylmalonic acidemia, or MMA, which can cause severe developmental defects and premature death as a result of an accumulation of toxic metabolites. Other than dietary and cofactor therapy, organ transplantation is the only existing option for patients with MMA, a severe organic acidemia most frequently caused by mutations in the enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase, or MUT. In February 2017, we entered into a strategic manufacturing agreement with Lonza Houston, Inc. to scale up and manufacture an Anc80 AAV-based gene therapy product for our MMA program. 
Under our license agreement with MEE, we also have the exclusive option to develop gene therapies using Anc80 for several additional indications including lysosomal storage, muscular and genetic metabolic diseases. 
For our second gene therapy program, we plan to develop another product candidate for the treatment of OTC deficiency, which is another metabolic disorder. We are pursuing this second indication through collaborations with third parties with preclinical and clinical experience in this area.
On December 2, 2016, or the Spark Signing Date, we entered into a License and Option Agreement, or the Spark License Agreement, with Spark Therapeutics, Inc., or Spark, to collaborate on the development of gene therapies for certain targets utilizing our SVP technology. Under the terms of the Spark License Agreement, we granted Spark certain exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing licenses to our intellectual property and know-how relating to our SVP technology to research, develop and commercialize gene therapies for Factor VIII, an essential blood clotting protein relevant to the treatment of hemophilia A, which is the initial target under the collaboration. 
Pursuant to the Spark License Agreement, Spark has made aggregate payments of $15.0 million to date. On a target-by-target basis, we will be eligible to receive up to an aggregate of $430.0 million in milestone payments for each target, with up to $65.0 million being based on Spark’s achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones and up to $365.0 million for commercial milestones, as well as tiered royalties on global net sales at percentages ranging from mid-single to low-double digits. Until December 2019, Spark has the right to fund up to 50.0% of any development or regulatory milestone payable to us by issuing us shares of Spark’s common stock having a fair market value equal to the percentage of such development or regulatory milestone, as applicable.
In addition, for a period of three years from the Spark Signing Date, Spark may exercise options to research, develop and commercialize gene therapies utilizing the SVP technology for up to four additional pre-specified targets, subject to Spark’s payment of the applicable option exercise fee, in a range of $1.4 million to $2.0 million depending on the incidence of the applicable indication, to us in each case.
In connection with the Spark License Agreement, we also entered into a stock purchase agreement with Spark, or the Spark SPA, pursuant to which Spark purchased an aggregate of $15.0 million of our common stock including (i) 197,238 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on the Spark Signing Date, (ii) 324,362 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on June 8, 2017, and (iii) 205,254 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on October 31, 2017.
For more information about the Spark License Agreement and the Spark SPA, see the discussion under “Licenses and Collaborations” below. 
OUR IMMUNE STIMULATION PROGRAMS
We believe our SVP technology, by encapsulating antigens and adjuvants, has the potential to be used for therapies that stimulate the immune system to treat cancer, infectious diseases and other diseases. We have early-stage programs for the therapeutic treatment of HPV-associated cancers and antibody-based vaccine programs for nicotine addiction and malaria. These programs have been primarily funded by grants and are the focus of our Russian operations.
20

Our SVP immune stimulation programs are designed to encapsulate an antigen and a toll-like receptor, or TLR, agonist as the immunomodulator. Humans possess 10 TLRs, each of which recognizes distinct molecular patterns associated with pathogens. Activation of TLRs alert the immune system that a potential pathogen is present and that the immune system should mount a response. In this regard, we refer to TLR agonists as substances that activate specific TLRs. TLR agonists can be used as supplements, or adjuvants, to vaccines to increase the immune response to the vaccine by activating the TLRs in antigen-presenting cells.
Injecting TLR agonists alone can cause off-target, systemic immune stimulation, leading to the production of secreted factors called cytokines, which can effectively limit the dosage of vaccines by causing inflammation and flu-like symptoms. To address this issue, our stimulatory SVP technology is designed to limit the TLR agonists from creating a systemic immune response by encapsulating the TLR agonists within our biodegradable nanoparticle. When the TLR agonist is encapsulated with SVP, referred to as SVP-TLR agonist, it can be selectively delivered, together with the vaccine target antigen, to the antigen-presenting cells to induce antigen-specific immune stimulation.
Cancer immunotherapy
Cancer immunotherapy leverages the immune system to treat cancer. The main function of the immune system is to discriminate between “self” and “non-self” antigens. Cancer cells thrive, in part, because they are derived from the body’s own cells, and thus are recognized by the immune system as self. We believe that cancer vaccines could be an important therapeutic modality to treat cancer by training the immune system to recognize cancer-associated antigens that are mutated or not expressed in normal adult tissues.
Tumors also evade the immune system by increasing the expression of certain molecules that suppress the immune response against the tumor. This mechanism may be overcome by administering products called immune checkpoint inhibitors, which are designed to block or overcome the immunosuppressive pathways and stimulate the immune system. We believe the efficacy of this approach depends on the existence of pre-existing tumor-specific cytolytic T cells, or CTL, that can be mobilized by checkpoint inhibitors. In some patients, the immune system either does not recognize the tumor or is too weak to mount a response and, as a result, cannot generate the CTL necessary to kill the tumor. For these patients, a vaccine therapy that stimulates the immune system and could be given in conjunction with a checkpoint inhibitor, may result in better outcomes. We believe that the combination of checkpoint inhibitors and effective cancer vaccines represents an advance in cancer immunotherapy.
HPV-associated cancer
HPV overview
HPV is a sexually transmitted infection that can lead to the development of cancer. Cervical HPV infection often clears spontaneously. However, when it persists, it can lead to the development of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, or CIN, and cervical cancer.
According to the World Health Organization, HPV infection results in an estimated 530,000 new cases of cervical cancer worldwide, with 270,000 deaths annually. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that there are approximately 40,000 U.S. cases of HPV-associated cancer per year. HPV is found in approximately 99% of cases of cervical cancer and 72% of cases of oropharyngeal head and neck cancer. The rising incidence of such cancers is thought to be related to the increasing proportion of cancers caused by HPV. In 2011, a study published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology observed that HPV prevalence in oropharyngeal cancers increased from 16.3% during 1984 to 1989 to 71.7% during 2000 to 2004. There are two HPV strains that are responsible for more than 70% of cervical cancer cases worldwide.
Gardasil and Cervarix are FDA-approved prophylactic vaccines for HPV-related cancers with aggregate worldwide sales reaching nearly $2.3 billion in 2016. While these vaccines can prevent tumor occurrence, Gardasil and Cervarix have not been approved for treatment of patients with existing HPV-related cancers.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2012, only 54% of women between the ages of 13 to 17 had received at least one dose of the HPV vaccine and only 33% received a complete series of three, which may serve as a prophylactic if administered prior to exposure. This level of vaccination is well below the 80% rate set as a goal by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. As a result, we believe that HPV-associated cancer will be an ongoing medical condition for the foreseeable future.
Overview of our program for HPV-associated cancer
Our first CTL-activating SVP program in development is designed to treat HPV-associated cancers by stimulating the immune response to the E6 and E7 proteins, which are expressed by HPV-associated tumor cells. The HPV E6 and E7 antigens are oncogenic proteins that promote malignant transformation and tumor growth. Our SVP program for HPV-associated cancer 
21

consists of a SVP encapsulating the E6 and E7 proteins, or SVP-E6/E7, co-administered with an SVP adjuvant that contains a TLR agonist. We refer to this co-administration as SVP-HPV. Both E6 and E7 present within the SVP are mutated in a targeted fashion and thus devoid of their oncogenic potential.
We were awarded a grant from the Skolkovo Foundation to support our program to develop an SVP immunotherapy to treat HPV-associated cancers. The grant has assisted us with advancing the program into preclinical toxicology studies.
OUR OTHER IMMUNE STIMULATION PROGRAMS
Our other immune stimulation programs are a therapeutic vaccine for smoking cessation and relapse prevention, funded by a grant from the NIDA part of the National Institutes of Health; a prophylactic malaria vaccine, funded by a grant from The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; and a product candidate to treat peanut allergy, previously funded by Sanofi. 
The smoking cessation and relapse prevention program aims to stimulate the immune system to produce nicotine-specific antibodies in smokers. We believe such antibodies have the potential to bind to the inhaled nicotine and prevent the inhaled nicotine from reaching the brain thereby reducing levels of nicotine in the brain to support smoking cessation and relapse prevention. We had a prior SVP-nicotine product candidate that was partly sponsored by a grant from NIDA, which entered clinical development. Results from a Phase 1 clinical trial conducted in smokers and non-smokers with this prior product candidate showed that it was well tolerated and that nicotine-specific antibodies were induced, but at sub-therapeutic levels. On the basis of the data from this Phase 1 trial, we obtained a new grant from NIDA to further optimize our SVP-nicotine product candidate. We initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacodynamic profile of our second-generation SVP-nicotine vaccine candidate, SELA-070, in 2017. This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose escalation study enrolling smokers that is currently being conducted in Belgium. Patients receive three injections of SELA-070 or a placebo over a period of 18 weeks followed by eight weeks of monitoring. In addition to safety, the study is evaluating the vaccine’s potency through the measurement of concentrations of nicotine-specific antibodies. 
The malaria program was designed to be a dual action, immune-stimulating SVP nanoparticle vaccine that we believe may offer the potential to protect against malaria by preventing infection and transmission. This discovery-stage program was completed under a grant from The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2017.
We continue to evaluate our strategic options to advance the development of our product candidate to treat peanut allergy. 
MANUFACTURING
We manufacture SVP using a readily-scalable, self-assembly nanoemulsion process with well-defined, robust commercial pharmaceutical unit operations. This proprietary, highly specialized and precisely controlled manufacturing process enables us to reproducibly manufacture SVP across many production scales, from milligram-scale at the laboratory bench to hundreds of grams to multi-kilogram scale for commercial production. This well-defined process has been produced at multiple scales. We have also developed and executed the required detailed analytic characterization of our products. We have completed and released multiple cGMP batches of nanoparticles at the 50-gram scale for our SVP-Rapamycin program and at the 10- and 20- gram scale for our nicotine program.
For the SEL-212 program, we have increased SVP-Rapamycin production to a 50-gram scale and have developed an approximately 400-gram scale process, which, at the current projected clinical dose, we believe would be suitable for commercial launch. The process is designed such that this same equipment is capable of potentially producing up to a one kilogram batch size scale. As our nanoparticle manufacturing process is compact, and therefore also portable, our strategy is to transfer our custom designed process skids to our contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, and have the CMO produce the nanoparticles, under our direction. This is the strategy we use for production of clinical supplies for clinical trials and would be the expected strategy for commercial production.
The pegsiticase enzyme for SEL-212 is produced by fermentation in E. Coli and is sourced from 3SBio in China. 3SBio is a Chinese pharmaceutical company that produces multiple approved products in China and also has product sales in other countries around the world. 3SBio supplies the pegsiticase used in the current clinical trials of SEL-212 in the United States. Through a licensing arrangement, we own exclusive worldwide rights to pegsiticase outside of China, with co-ownership of rights in Japan and with 3SBio owning all rights in China. Under this arrangement, 3SBio has agreed to supply us with pegsiticase. We also have selected a back-up supplier for pegsiticase in the United States.
In January 2017 we entered into a manufacturing agreement with Lonza Houston, Inc., a leader in viral gene and cell therapy manufacturing. Under the terms of the agreement, Lonza has agreed to produce an Anc80-AAV-based gene therapy product for our proprietary program for MMA. 
22

LICENSES AND COLLABORATIONS
Spark Therapeutics
In December 2016, we entered into the Spark License Agreement to develop gene therapies for certain targets utilizing our SVP technology.
Under the terms of the Spark License Agreement, we granted Spark certain exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing licenses to our intellectual property and know-how relating to our SVP technology to research, develop and commercialize gene therapies for Factor VIII, an essential blood clotting protein relevant to the treatment of hemophilia A, which is the initial target under the license agreement.
Pursuant to the Spark License Agreement, Spark made payments to us of $30.0 million in the aggregate. On a target-by-target basis, we will be eligible to receive up to an aggregate of $430.0 million in milestone payments for each target, with up to $65.0 million being based on Spark’s achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones and up to $365.0 million for commercial milestones, as well as tiered royalties on global net sales at percentages ranging from mid-single to low-double digits. Until December 2019, Spark has the right to fund up to 50.0% of any development or regulatory milestone payable to us by issuing us shares of Spark’s common stock having a fair market value equal to the percentage of such development or regulatory milestone, as applicable. 
In addition, until December 2019, Spark may exercise options to research, develop and commercialize gene therapies utilizing our SVP technology for up to four additional targets, subject to Spark’s payment to us of the applicable option exercise fee, in a range of $1.4 million to $2.0 million depending on the incidence of the applicable indication. 
Each party is responsible for its own costs and expenses incurred in connection with its respective activities under the Spark License, except that Spark has agreed to reimburse us for FTE and out-of-pocket costs incurred in performing certain tasks or assistance specifically requested by Spark. We retain the responsibility to manufacture Spark’s preclinical, clinical and commercial requirements for the SVP technology, subject to the terms of the Spark License.
The Spark License Agreement will continue on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis until the expiration of Spark’s royalty payment obligations with respect to such product in such country unless earlier terminated by the parties. The Spark License Agreement may be terminated by Spark for convenience upon ninety days’ notice. Either party may terminate the Spark License Agreement on a target-by-target basis for material breach with respect to such target.
In connection with the Spark License Agreement, we also entered into the Spark SPA, pursuant to which Spark has purchased in the aggregate $15.0 million of our common stock including (i) 197,238 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on the Spark Signing Date, (ii) 324,362 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on June 8, 2017, and (iii) 205,254 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million on October 31, 2017.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
In November 2008, we entered into a license agreement with MIT, which we refer to as the MIT License. We amended the MIT License in January 2010, November 2012, August 2013 and November 2016. Under the MIT License, we acquired an exclusive worldwide license, with the right to grant sublicenses, to develop, make, sell, use and import certain licensed products that are therapeutic or prophylactic vaccines and use certain licensed processes in the exercise of rights to the licensed products, the manufacture, sale and practice of which are covered by patent rights owned or controlled by MIT, including patents jointly owned with Brigham, the President and Fellows of Harvard College, the Immune Disease Institute and the Children’s Medical Center Corporation. Our exclusivity is subject to certain retained rights of these institutions and other third parties.
Upon our entry into the MIT License, we paid MIT a non-refundable license issue fee, reimbursed certain of MIT’s costs and issued shares of our common stock to MIT and the other institutional patent owners which were subject to certain anti-dilution, registration and other protective rights. We are obligated to pay MIT creditable annual maintenance fees, low-single-digit running royalty on annual net sales, developmental milestones up to an aggregate of $1.5 million, a mid-single digit percentage of certain payments we receive from corporate partners and a specified percentage of certain income received from sublicensees after 2009 between 10% and 30%. We may terminate the MIT License at any time upon six months written notice. MIT has the right to terminate the MIT License immediately upon written notice to us if we cease to carry on our business related to the MIT License, fail to maintain insurance as required under the MIT License, file for bankruptcy, fail to pay amounts due under the MIT License, challenge or assist others in bringing a challenge to MIT’s patents or fail to cure material breach within 60 days’ written notice thereof. Absent early termination, the MIT License will continue until the expiration or abandonment of the last to expire patent right subject to the MIT License.
23

Shenyang Sunshine Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
In May 2014, we entered into a license agreement with 3SBio, as amended in May 2017, which we refer to as the 3SBio License. Pursuant to the 3SBio License, we were granted an exclusive license to certain pegsiticase-related patents and related “know-how” owned or in-licensed by 3SBio for the worldwide (except for Greater China and Japan) development and commercialization of products based thereupon for human therapeutic, diagnostic and prophylactic use. We are also granted a worldwide (except for Greater China) exclusive license to develop, commercialize and manufacture or have manufactured products combining our proprietary SVP technology with pegsiticase or related compounds supplied by 3SBio (or otherwise supplied if our rights to manufacture are in effect) for human therapeutic, diagnostic and prophylactic use. We were also granted a co-exclusive license to manufacture and have manufactured pegsiticase and related compounds for our preclinical and clinical use or, if the 3SBio License is terminated for 3SBio’s material breach, for any use under the 3SBio License. In addition, the 3SBio License, as amended, permits us to utilize one or more third parties to provide up to 20% of our commercial supply of pegsiticase. Otherwise, except in the case of a supply shortage on the part of 3SBio, we are obligated to obtain at least 80% of our supply of such compounds for Phase 3 clinical trials and commercial use from 3SBio under the terms of supply agreements to be negotiated.
Under the 3SBio License we have paid to 3SBio an aggregate of $1.0 million in upfront and milestone-based payments in 2015 and made an additional milestone payment totaling $2.0 million in 2016. We are required to make future payments to 3SBio contingent upon the occurrence of events related to the achievement of clinical and regulatory approval milestones of up to an aggregate of $21.0 million for products containing our SVP technology, and up to an aggregate of $41.5 million for products without our SVP technology. We are also required to pay 3SBio tiered royalties on annual worldwide net sales related to the pegsiticase component of products at percentages ranging from the low-to-mid single digits for products containing our SVP technology, and from the mid-single digits to low or low-to-mid teens for products without our SVP technology, subject to specified reductions. These royalties are payable, on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis until the later of (i) the date that all of the patent rights for that product have expired in that country, or (ii) a specified number of years from the first commercial sale of such product in such country.
The 3SBio License expires on the date of expiration of all of our royalty payment obligations unless earlier terminated by either party for an uncured material default or for the other party’s bankruptcy. We may also terminate the 3SBio License on a country-by-country or product-by-product basis for any reason effective upon 60 days’ prior written notice to 3SBio or, with respect to a given product, immediately upon written notice to 3SBio if we identify a safety or efficacy concern related to such product.
BIND
In December 2008, we entered into a cross-license agreement with BIND Therapeutics, Inc. (formerly BIND Biosciences, Inc.), or BIND, which we refer to as the BIND Agreement. Pursuant to the BIND Agreement, BIND granted us a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free worldwide non-exclusive license under certain of BIND’s existing and future patent rights to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale and import products and services covered by such patents and patent applications in the field of certain prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines. The time period for adding new patent rights, not included in the families of previously licensed patent rights, to our license grant from BIND has expired. Pursuant to the BIND Agreement, we granted BIND a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide non-exclusive license under certain of our current and future patent rights to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale and import products and services covered by such patents and patent applications in all other fields, in each case, excluding certain future patent rights of each party related to novel targeting agents. The time period for adding new patent rights, not included in the families of previously licensed patent rights, to BIND’s license grant from us has expired.
We have paid BIND an upfront license issuance fee and reimbursed certain of BIND’s fees in connection with the entry into the BIND Agreement. No royalties or other payments are due to or by either party. The BIND Agreement expires upon expiration of the last patent right covered by the BIND Agreement. Neither party may unilaterally terminate the BIND Agreement for any reason. If either party materially breaches the BIND Agreement, fails to expend a specified amount in research and development activities related to the BIND Agreement, undergoes bankruptcy or insolvency, or undergoes a change of control, the future patent rights to be included in the license grant to the party breaching, failing to expend such amounts or undergoing such event under the BIND Agreement will no longer be granted to the breaching party.
In connection with BIND’s entry into bankruptcy proceeding in 2016, Pfizer purchased substantially all of the assets of BIND, including those pertaining to the BIND Agreement.
24

Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary
In May 2016, we entered into a license agreement with the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and The Schepens Eye Research Institute, Inc., or, collectively, MEE, which we refer to as the MEE License. Under the MEE License, we were granted an exclusive commercial worldwide license, with the right to grant sublicenses through multiple tiers, to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell and import certain products and to practice certain processes, the sale, use or practice of which are covered by patents and proprietary know-how owned or controlled by MEE, for use of Anc80 gene therapy vectors for gene augmentation therapies expressing certain target sequences.
MEE also granted us exclusive options to exclusively license certain of their intellectual property rights relating to several additional target sequences and variations thereof each linked to a specified disease. Pursuant to the MEE Agreement, we agreed to pay MEE a license fee in the low six figures, annual license maintenance fees ranging from the mid-twenty thousands to mid-seventy thousands and an option maintenance fee in the low five figures for each exercisable option. We also agreed to pay development milestones on a licensed product-by-licensed product basis, totaling up to an aggregate of between $4.2 million to $37.0 million and sales milestones on a licensed product-by-licensed product basis, totaling up to an aggregate of between $50.0 million to $70.0 million; tiered royalties equal to a percentage of net sales ranging from mid-single digits to mid-teens, subject to certain reductions; and a percentage, in a range expected to be in the mid-teens depending on timing, of any sublicense income we receive from sublicensing our rights granted thereunder, subject to certain reductions and exclusions. The MEE License will continue until the expiration of the last to expire of the patent rights licensed thereunder. We may terminate the MEE License in whole or in part upon prior written notice. MEE may terminate the MEE License on a target sequence-by-target sequence basis if we fail to make any scheduled payments in respect of such target sequence or if we materially breach a diligence obligation in respect of such target sequence, in each case if we fail to cure within a specified time period. MEE may terminate the MEE License in its entirety if we materially breach certain of our obligations related to diligence, representations and warranties, and maintenance of insurance; if we challenge the validity or enforceability of any patents licensed thereunder; if any of our executive officers are convicted of a felony relating to manufacture, use, sale or importation of licensed products; or upon our insolvency or bankruptcy.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
We endeavor to protect our SVP based immunotherapy program technology, which we consider fundamental to our business, by seeking, maintaining and defending patent rights, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties, relating to our program, product candidates, their methods of use and the processes for their manufacture. Our practice is to strive to protect our intellectual property by, among other methods, pursuing and obtaining patent protection in the United States and in jurisdictions outside of the United States related to our proprietary technology, inventions, improvements, programs and product candidates that are commercially important to the operation and growth of our business. We also rely on trade secrets and know-how relating to our proprietary technology, programs and product candidates, continuing innovation and in-licensing opportunities to maintain, advance and fortify our proprietary position in our SVP-based immunotherapy program and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for our program technology, inventions and improvements; to preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets; to maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned or controlled by third parties; to defend and enforce our proprietary rights, including our patents; and to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties.
We have developed and in-licensed numerous patents and patent applications and possess substantial know-how and trade secrets relating to our SVP-based immunotherapy technology, program and product candidates. Our patent portfolio contains 10 issued patents in the United States and 82 foreign issued patents, in all cases, owned solely by us. We also have 62 pending patent applications in the United States as well as 407 foreign pending patent applications, in all cases, owned solely by us. These patents and patent applications include claims directed to:

• | tolerance and cancer immunotherapy programs;


• | other immune stimulation programs;


• | methods and compositions incorporating our proprietary SVP nanoparticle in a variety of tolerance applications, including:


◦ | mitigating or treating anti-drug antibodies association with protein drugs such as pegsiticase or LMB-100, and


◦ | genetic therapies (such as viral delivery of genes).

25


• | development and commercialization of SEL-212, including both composition of matter and method of treatment claims (there are three patent families that cover the SEL-212 product, one of which is a licensed, issued U.S. patent that covers the SEL-212 product, which expires in 2021); and


• | methods and compositions incorporating our proprietary SVP nanoparticle in a variety of cancer immunotherapy applications, including:


◦ | creating various cancer vaccines, and


◦ | combination treatments, including co-treatment with PD-1/PDL-1 checkpoint inhibitors.

Set forth below is a table indicating the expiration dates for our owned patent families, or expected expiration dates in the case of our owned patent application families, corresponding to each of our programs.
Program | Description | PatentFamily(1) | Expiration(2)
Refractory and chronic tophaceous gout (SEL-212) | SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with pegsiticase | 19 | | 2032-2037
Mesothelioma/Pancreatic Cancer | SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with LMB-100 | 16 | | 2032-2035
Gene therapy | SVP-Rapamycin co-administered with AAV vector | 19 | | 2032-2035
Peanut allergy | SVP-adjuvant and SVP-food allergen | 13 | | 2032-2035
Celiac disease | SVP-Rapamycin and SVP-gluten | 13 | | 2032-2035
Type 1 diabetes | SVP-Rapamycin and SVP-gluten | 15 | | 2032-2035
Smoking cessation and relapse prevention (SELA-070) | SVP-adjuvant and SVP-nicotine | 6 | | 2030-2032
HPV-associated cancer (SEL-701) | SVP-adjuvant and SVP-HPV antigen | 6 | | 2030-2032


(1) | Reflects number of relevant patent and patent application families.


(2) | Reflects expiration date and estimated expiration date ranges of issued patents and patent applications, respectively.

In addition, we have exclusively or non-exclusively licensed intellectual property, including the following patent portfolio: 37 U.S. issued patents; 149 foreign issued patents; 7 U.S. pending patent applications; and 112 foreign pending applications. The licensed patents and patent applications cover various aspects of the technology being developed by us, including claims directed to compositions of matter and methods of use, and have been filed in various countries worldwide including in North America, Europe and Asia, with material expiration dates varying from 2021 to, if claims are issued, 2028. In addition to filing and prosecuting patent applications in the United States, we often file analogous patent applications in the European Union and in additional foreign countries where we believe such filing is likely to be beneficial, including but not limited to Australia, Brazil, China, and Eurasia, including the Russian Federation, Europe, South Korea, Mexico, India, Israel and Japan.
Each patent’s term depends upon the laws of the countries in which they are obtained. The patent term in most countries in which we file is 20 years from the earliest date of filing of a non-provisional patent application. Notably, the term of U.S. patents may be extended due to delays incurred due to compliance with FDA or by delays encountered during prosecution that are caused by the USPTO. For example, the Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension for FDA-approved drugs of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent, depending upon the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. There is a limit to the amount of time a patent may be extended in the United States; no patent extension can extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar patent term extensions are available in Europe and other jurisdictions for patents that cover regulatory-approved drugs. Currently, we own or license patents with material expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2032. If patents are issued on pending patent applications that we own or license, the resulting patents are expected to have material expiration dates ranging from 2027 to 2035. However, the actual patent protection period varies on a product-by-product basis, from country-to-country, and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory-related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patent. 
COMPETITION
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face potential competition from many different sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize may compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future.
26

Our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources, established presence in the market, expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and reimbursement and marketing approved products than we do. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, sales, marketing and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.
The key competitive factors affecting the success of SEL-212, and any other tolerance or immune stimulation product candidates that we develop, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors.
Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic or biosimilar products. SEL-212 may compete with others in the gout market, including Krystexxa, which contains a pegylated uricase similar to the Pegsiticase component of SEL-212 and is indicated for the treatment of refractory gout. Horizon Pharma plc, whose affiliates own Krystexxa, may find other approaches to eliminate undesired immunogenicity to Krystexxa. Long-term treatment with global immunosuppressive products may increase the susceptibility to contract infections, tumors and may lead to organ failure. Large companies with active research to prevent the formation of ADAs and treat allergies or autoimmune diseases include Sanofi, Pfizer Inc., or Pfizer, and Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck. Small, early-stage biopharmaceutical companies active in the research for new technologies to induce antigen-specific immune tolerance include Anokion SA, AnTolRx Inc., Apitope International NV, Caladrius Biosciences, Cour Pharmaceutical Development Company, Inc., Dendright International, Inc., Parvus Therapeutics, REGiMMUNE Corporation, Rubius Therapeutics, Inc., Tolerion, Inc., Topas Therapeutics GmbH, and Txcell SA. However, we believe that most of these companies are focused on autoimmune and inflammatory diseases rather than immune tolerance to biologics. 
Our immunostimulatory therapies are also subject to intense competition. In cancer therapy, the most common methods of treating patients are surgery, radiation and drug therapy, including chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Large pharmaceutical companies, including AstraZeneca PLC, or AstraZeneca, Roche Holding AG, Pfizer, Merck, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and Amgen Inc., as well as smaller biopharmaceutical companies including Immune Design Corp. are active in the research and development of cancer vaccines. There are a variety of vaccine approaches to treat HPV-associated cancer including the use of DNA vaccines, novel adjuvants, novel antigens and novel delivery vectors for the antigen. Companies with clinical-stage HPV-associated cancer candidates include, among others, Advaxis, in Phase 3 clinical development with Axalimogene Filolisbac; Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in Phase 2 clinical development with VGX3100; ISA Pharmaceuticals, B.V., in Phase 2 clinical development with ISA-101; AstraZeneca, in Phase 2 clinical development with Axalimogene Filolisbac, which it licensed from Advaxis, and in Phase 2 clinical development with MEDI0457 (previously known as INO-3112) in combination with durvalumab, which it licensed from Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and BioNTech AG, in Phase 1/2 clinical development with HARE-40. While in the preclinical stage, we believe that our approach shares the safety of approved vaccine technologies that use antigens and adjuvants and could be synergistic with the use of checkpoint inhibitors such as PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors. 
We are also competing in the development of new prophylactic vaccines with large pharmaceutical companies such as Sanofi, Pfizer, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Johnson & Johnson, and AstraZeneca and smaller biopharmaceutical companies such as Genocea Biosciences, Inc. and Novavax Inc.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. 
Our most advanced product candidate, SEL-212, is subject to regulation in the United States as a combination product. If marketed individually, each component would be subject to different regulatory pathways and would require approval of independent marketing applications by the FDA. A combination product, however, is assigned to a Center that will have primary jurisdiction over its regulation based on a determination of the combination product’s primary mode of action, which is the single mode of action that provides the most important therapeutic action. In the case of our SEL-212, we believe that the primary mode of action is attributable to the biologic component of the product. In the case of SEL-212, which we believe will be regulated as a therapeutic biologic, the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, will have primary jurisdiction over premarket development. We expect to seek approval of SEL-212 through a single Biologics License 
27

Application, or BLA, reviewed by CDER, and we do not expect that the FDA will require a separate marketing authorization for each constituent of SEL-212.
Biological products are subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FD&C Act, and the Public Health Service Act, or PHS Act, and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations. SEL-212 and any other product candidates that we develop must be approved by the FDA before they may be legally marketed in the United States and by the appropriate foreign regulatory agency before they may be legally marketed in foreign countries.
U.S. biological products development process
The process required by the FDA before a biologic, including a gene therapy, may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:

• | completion of extensive nonclinical testing, sometimes referred to as preclinical testing, including laboratory tests, animal trials and formulation studies in accordance with applicable regulations, including good laboratory practices, or GLPs, and applicable requirements for humane use of laboratory animals;


• | submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;


• | performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to the FDA’s regulations commonly referred to as good clinical practice, or GCP, regulations and any additional requirements for the protection of human research subjects and their health information, to establish the safety, purity and potency of the proposed biological product for its intended use;


• | submission to the FDA of a BLA for marketing approval that includes substantive evidence of safety, purity, and potency from results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials;


• | satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the biological product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP requirements to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the biological product’s identity, strength, quality and purity;


• | potential FDA audit of the nonclinical and clinical study sites that generated the data in support of the BLA; and


• | FDA review and approval, or licensure, of the BLA.

Before testing any biological product candidate in humans, the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests, also referred to as nonclinical studies, include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including GLPs.
The clinical study sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the clinical study on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical study can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a biological product candidate at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, trials may not recommence without FDA authorization and then only under terms authorized by the FDA.
Clinical trials involve the administration of the biological product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the study sponsor’s control. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical study, dosing procedures, patient selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor patient safety, including stopping rules that assure a clinical study will be stopped if certain adverse events should occur. Each protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical trials must be conducted and monitored in accordance with the FDA’s regulations comprising the GCP requirements, including the requirement that all research patients provide informed consent. Further, each clinical study must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at or servicing each institution at which the clinical study will be conducted. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined:

• | Phase I. The biological product candidate is initially introduced into healthy human patients and tested for safety. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients.

28


• | Phase II. The biological product candidate is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule.


• | Phase III. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy, potency, and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling.

Post-approval clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase IV clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These clinical trials are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication, particularly for long-term safety follow-up.
During all phases of clinical development, regulatory agencies require extensive monitoring and auditing of all clinical activities, clinical data, and clinical study investigators. The FDA or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board may suspend a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research patients or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the biological product candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients.
There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and completed clinical trial results to public registries. Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including biologics, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information, which is publicly available at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal trials and must also develop additional information about the physical characteristics of the biological product candidate as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with GMP requirements.
Gene therapies
Where a gene therapy study is conducted at, or sponsored by, institutions receiving funding from the National Institute of Health, or NIH, for recombinant DNA research, prior to the submission of an IND to the FDA, study protocol and related documentation is submitted to and the study is registered with the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities, or OBA, pursuant to the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or NIH Guidelines. Compliance with the NIH Guidelines is mandatory for investigators at institutions receiving NIH funds for research involving recombinant DNA. However many companies and other institutions not otherwise subject to the NIH Guidelines voluntarily follow them. The NIH is responsible for convening the recombinant DNA advisory committee, or RAC. Current NIH guidelines specify that RAC review of human gene transfer protocols should be limited to cases in which an oversight body, such as an Institutional Biosafety Committee or an IRB determines that a protocol would significantly benefit from RAC review, and has been determined to meet certain additional criteria. OBA will notify the FDA of the RAC’s decision regarding the necessity for full public review of a gene therapy protocol. RAC proceedings and reports are posted to the OBA web site and may be accessed by the public.
U.S. review and approval processes
After the completion of clinical trials of a biological product candidate, FDA approval of a BLA must be obtained before commercial marketing of the biological product. The BLA must include results of product development, laboratory and animal trials, human trials, information on the manufacture and composition of the product, proposed labeling and other relevant information. In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, a BLA or supplement to a BLA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the biological product candidate for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, requires that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug or biological product that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within sixty days after an end-of-Phase 2 meeting or as may be agreed between the sponsor and FDA. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any biological product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted.
Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as amended, each BLA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on BLAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication.
Within 60 days following submission of the application, the FDA reviews a BLA submitted to determine if it is substantially complete before the agency accepts it for filing. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission and may request additional information. In this event, the BLA must be resubmitted with the additional information. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review of the 
29

BLA. The FDA reviews the BLA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and potent, or effective, for its intended use, and has an acceptable purity profile, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP requirements to assure and preserve the product’s identity, safety, strength, quality, potency and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel biological products or biological products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the biological product approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, is necessary to assure the safe use of the biological product candidate. If the FDA concludes a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the BLA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the BLA without a REMS, if required.
Before approving a BLA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with GMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure that the clinical trials were conducted in compliance with IND study requirements and GCP requirements.
Notwithstanding the submission of relevant data and information, the FDA may ultimately decide that the BLA does not satisfy its regulatory criteria for approval and deny approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than the applicant interprets the same data. If the FDA decides not to approve the BLA in its present form, the FDA will issue a complete response letter that usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the BLA identified by the FDA. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the BLA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application.
If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. The FDA may impose restrictions and conditions on product distribution, prescribing, or dispensing in the form of a REMS, or otherwise limit the scope of any approval. In addition, the FDA may require post marketing clinical trials, sometimes referred to as Phase IV clinical trials, designed to further assess a biological product’s safety and effectiveness, and testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized.
One of the performance goals agreed to by the FDA under the PDUFA is to review 90% of standard BLAs in 10 months from the filing date and 90% of priority BLAs in six months from the filing date, whereupon a review decision is to be made. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority BLAs.
Orphan designation
The FDA may grant orphan designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or if it affects more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and marketing the product for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States. Orphan designation must be requested before submitting a BLA. After the FDA grants orphan designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process.
In the United States, orphan designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. In addition, if a product receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has orphan designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same product for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority over the product with orphan exclusivity or where the manufacturer with orphan exclusivity is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the approved orphan designated product. Competitors, however, may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity or obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity. Orphan product exclusivity also could block the approval of one of our products for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same biological product as defined by the FDA or if our product candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. If a drug or biological product designated as an orphan product receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan product exclusivity.
We have not requested orphan designation for our product candidates, but depending on the proposed indication for which we intend to develop our future products, we may in the future request such designation.
30

Expedited development and review programs
The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new biological products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new biological products are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the disease or condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a new biologic may request that the FDA designate the biologic as a Fast Track product at any time during the clinical development of the product. Unique to a Fast Track product, the FDA may consider for review sections of the marketing application on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the application, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the application and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the application.
Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a Fast Track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new biological product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Biological products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may be eligible for accelerated approval, which means that they may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a biological product subject to accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. Fast Track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process.
In addition, under the provisions of FDASIA, the FDA established a Breakthrough Therapy Designation which is intended to expedite the development and review of products that treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions. A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The designation includes all of the features of Fast Track designation, as well as more intensive FDA interaction and guidance. The Breakthrough Therapy Designation is a distinct status from both accelerated approval and priority review, but these can also be granted to the same product candidate if the relevant criteria are met. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. Requests for breakthrough therapy designation will be reviewed within 60 days of receipt, and FDA will either grant or deny the request.
Fast Track designation, priority review, accelerated approval and breakthrough therapy designation do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. Even if we receive one of these designations for our product candidates, the FDA may later decide that our product candidates no longer meet the conditions for qualification. In addition, these designations may not provide us with a material commercial advantage.
Post-approval requirements
Maintaining substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Rigorous and extensive FDA regulation of biological products continues after approval, particularly with respect to cGMP requirements. Manufacturers of our products are required to comply with applicable requirements in the cGMP regulations, including quality control and quality assurance and maintenance of records and documentation. Other post-approval requirements applicable to biological products include record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse effects and reporting updated safety and efficacy information.
We also must comply with the FDA’s advertising and promotion requirements, such as those related to direct-to-consumer advertising, the prohibition on promoting products for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the product’s approved labeling (known as “off-label use”), industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Discovery of previously unknown problems or the failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant or manufacturer to administrative or judicial 
31

civil or criminal sanctions and adverse publicity. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, clinical hold, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, debarment, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal penalties.
Biological product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved biological products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain GMP compliance. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process or facility generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval.
Biosimilars and exclusivity
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, signed into law on March 23, 2010, includes a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, which created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with an FDA-licensed reference biological product. 
Biosimilarity, which requires that there be no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity and potency, can be shown through analytical studies, animal studies and a clinical study or studies. Interchangeability requires that a product is biosimilar to the reference product and the product must demonstrate that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product in any given patient and, for products that are administered multiple times to an individual, the biologic and the reference biologic may be alternated or switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. However, complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the processes by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway that are still being worked out by the FDA.
Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product may not be submitted to the FDA until four years following the date that the reference product was first licensed by the FDA. In addition, the approval of a biosimilar product may not be made effective by the FDA until 12 years from the date on which the reference product was first licensed. During this 12-year period of exclusivity, another company may still market a competing version of the reference product if the FDA approves a full BLA for the competing product containing the sponsor’s own preclinical data and data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of their product. The BPCIA also created certain exclusivity periods for certain biosimilars approved as interchangeable products. At this juncture, it is unclear whether products deemed “interchangeable” by the FDA will, in fact, be readily substituted by pharmacies, which are governed by state pharmacy law.
A biological product can also obtain pediatric market exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent term, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric study in accordance with an FDA-issued "Written Request" for such a study. 
The BPCIA is complex and is continuing to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, the ultimate impact, implementation and meaning of the BPCIA is subject to significant uncertainty.
Government regulation outside of the United States
In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical studies and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. Because biologically sourced raw materials are subject to unique contamination risks, their use may be restricted in some countries.
Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical studies or marketing of the product in those countries. Certain countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical study application much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical studies. In the European Union, for example, a clinical trial authorization, or CTA, must be submitted to each country’s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and the IRB, respectively. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country’s requirements, clinical study development may proceed.
The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, the clinical studies are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
32

In the European Economic Area, or EEA, which is composed of the 28 Member States of the European Union plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA.
There are two types of MAs.

• | The Community MA, which is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and which is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, and medicinal products that contain a new active substance indicated for the treatment of AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU. Under the Centralized Procedure the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days (excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP). Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when the authorization of a medicinal product is of major interest from the point of view of public health and in particular from the viewpoint of therapeutic innovation. Under the accelerated procedure the standard 210 days review period is reduced to 150 days.


• | National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in another Member States through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure.

To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational biological product under European Union regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application, which is similar to the U.S. BLA. The European Union also provides opportunities for market exclusivity. For example, in the European Union, upon receiving marketing authorization, new chemical entities generally receive eight years of data exclusivity and an additional two years of market exclusivity. If granted, data exclusivity prevents regulatory authorities in the European Union from referencing the innovator’s data to assess a generic application. During the additional two-year period of market exclusivity, a generic marketing authorization can be submitted, and the innovator’s data may be referenced, but no generic product can be marketed until the expiration of the market exclusivity. However, there is no guarantee that a product will be considered by the European Union’s regulatory authorities to be a new chemical entity, and products may not qualify for data exclusivity. Products receiving orphan designation in the European Union can receive ten years of market exclusivity, during which time no marketing authorization application shall be accepted and no marketing authorization shall be granted for a similar medicinal product for the same indication. An orphan product can also obtain an additional two years of market exclusivity in the European Union for pediatric studies. No extension to any supplementary protection certificate can be granted on the basis of pediatric studies for orphan indications.
The criteria for designating an “orphan medicinal product” in the European Union are similar in principle to those in the United States. Under Article 3 of Regulation (EC) 141/2000, a medicinal product may be designated as orphan if (1) it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition; (2) either (a) such condition affects no more than five in 10,000 persons in the European Union when the application is made, or (b) the product, without the benefits derived from orphan status, would not generate sufficient return in the European Union to justify investment; and (3) there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such condition authorized for marketing in the European Union, or if such a method exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, as defined in Regulation (EC) 847/2000. Orphan medicinal products are eligible for financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and are, upon grant of a marketing authorization, entitled to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved therapeutic indication. The application for orphan drug designation must be submitted before the application for marketing authorization. The applicant will receive a fee reduction for the marketing authorization application if the orphan drug designation has been granted, but not if the designation is still pending at the time the marketing authorization is submitted. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.
The 10-year market exclusivity may be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan designation, for example, if the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Additionally, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar product for the same indication at any time if the: 

• | second applicant can establish that its product, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior;

33


• | applicant consents to a second orphan medicinal product application; or


• | applicant cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product.

For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, again, the clinical studies are conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Other healthcare laws
In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical and biological products, other U.S. federal and state healthcare regulatory laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry, which include, but are not limited to, state and federal anti-kickback, false claims, data privacy and security, and physician payment and drug pricing transparency laws.
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any item or service reimbursable, in whole or in part, under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. The intent standard under the Anti-Kickback Statute was amended by the ACA to a stricter standard such that a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute may also constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The majority of states also have anti-kickback laws, which establish similar prohibitions and in some cases may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.
The federal false claims and civil monetary penalties laws, including the civil False Claims Act, prohibit any person or entity from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false, fictitious or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government, or from knowingly making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation. A claim includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the Attorney General or as a qui tam action by a private individual in the name of the government. Violations of the civil False Claims Act can result in very significant monetary penalties and treble damages. In addition, the civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. Many states also have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Given the significant size of actual and potential settlements, it is expected that the government authorities will continue to devote substantial resources to investigating healthcare providers’ and manufacturers’ compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws.
The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, prohibits, among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.
In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians and certain other healthcare providers. The ACA imposed, among other things, new annual reporting requirements through the Physician Payments Sunshine Act for covered manufacturers for certain payments and “transfers of value” provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit timely, accurately and completely the required information for all payments, transfers of value and ownership or investment interests may result in civil monetary penalties. In addition, certain states require implementation of compliance programs and compliance with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, impose restrictions on marketing practices, and/or tracking and reporting of 
34

pricing information and marketing expenditure as well as gifts, compensation and other remuneration or items of value provided to physicians and other healthcare professionals and entities.
We may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, impose specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information held by covered entities and their business associates. Among other things, HITECH made HIPAA’s security standards directly applicable to, as well as imposed certain other privacy obligations on, “business associates,” defined as independent contractors or agents of covered entities that create, receive, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney’s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same requirements, thus complicating compliance efforts.
If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and individual imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.
To the extent that any of our product candidates, once approved, are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or other transfers of value to healthcare professionals.
Coverage and reimbursement
Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any pharmaceutical or biological products for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will therefore depend, in part, on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government authorities, managed care plans, private health insurers and other organizations.
The process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a pharmaceutical or biological product typically is separate from the process for setting the price of such product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover our product candidates could reduce physician utilization of our products once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, a third-party payor’s decision to provide coverage for a pharmaceutical or biological product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Additionally, coverage and reimbursement for products can differ significantly from payor to payor. One third-party payor’s decision to cover a particular medical product or service does not ensure that other payors will also provide coverage for the medical product or service, or will provide coverage at an adequate reimbursement rate.
The containment of healthcare costs is a priority of federal, state and foreign governments, and the prices of pharmaceutical or biological products have been a focus in this effort. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of pharmaceutical or biological products, medical devices and medical services, in addition to questioning safety and efficacy. If these third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products after FDA approval or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products at a profit.
Healthcare reform
A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medical products. For example, the ACA, among other things, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the 
35

Medicaid Drug Rebate Program; introduced a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care plans; subjected drug manufacturers to new annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal healthcare programs; and created a new Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.
We expect that the ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our drugs.
We also expect that the new presidential administration and U.S. Congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the ACA. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts was enacted, which, among other things, removes penalties for not complying with the individual mandate to carry health insurance. 
In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. This included aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will stay in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals and imaging centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Recently there has also been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, reform government program reimbursement methodologies. 
We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products once approved or additional pricing pressures.
EMPLOYEES
As of January 31, 2018, we had 64 full-time employees, 48 of whom were primarily engaged in research and development activities. A total of 23 employees have either one or both an M.D. or Ph.D. degree. None of our employees is represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good.
