Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business. 
OVERVIEW 
 We are a pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing products that have the potential to transform the way therapy is delivered, advance patient care and reduce healthcare costs. Our proprietary platform is designed to enable the subcutaneous administration of therapies that have previously been limited to intravenous, or IV, delivery. By moving delivery away from the high-cost healthcare settings typically required for IV administration, we believe our technology reduces overall healthcare costs and advances the quality and convenience of care. Our lead product candidate, Furoscix, consists of our novel subcutaneous formulation of furosemide delivered via our sc2Wear Infusor and is under development for treatment of worsening, or decompensated, heart failure outside of the inpatient setting. We filed a new drug application, or NDA, for 
 1

Furoscix, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in August 2017. The FDA notified us in October 2017 that it had accepted our NDA for review and assigned us a June 23, 2018 Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, date which is the goal date for the FDA to complete its review of our NDA. 
 Management of fluid retention, or edema, to avoid decompensation is the primary concern for heart failure specialists and patients. When these efforts fail and patients begin to retain excess fluid, they are admitted to the hospital for more intensive diuresis, via IV administration of a loop diuretic. Furosemide represents over 90% of the IV loop diuretics utilized. Once a patient is stabilized, hospitals must decide between keeping the patient hospitalized for further diuresis, which results in high costs to the hospital, or discharging the patient so they may resume their normal lives and continue diuresis at home. In many instances, patients are discharged before diuresis is complete and must be readmitted to the hospital when their oral diuretic is not effective at home. Between 25% to 30% of Medicare patients are readmitted to the hospital for heart failure within 30 days of discharge, resulting in increased healthcare costs and potential penalties for the hospital. 
 We believe Furoscix, if approved by the FDA, would allow heart failure patients to receive IV-strength diuresis with earlier discharge from, or potentially without admission to, the high-cost hospital setting. Reduced readmission rates, earlier patient discharge, and prevention of hospital admissions would result in reducing the estimated 15 million days patients with heart failure spend in the hospital each year. By decreasing the number of days in the hospital, we believe we can drive significant cost savings to payers and hospitals. 
 Furoscix is designed to be applied to a patient’s abdomen for subcutaneous administration by patients and caregivers outside of the hospital setting. We license the piston pump technology for our sc2Wear Infusor from Sensile. Our license agreement with Sensile grants us the exclusive worldwide right to develop, commercialize and sell our sc2Wear Infusor in a defined field, which includes formulations of certain generic cardiovascular and infectious disease therapies (including antibiotics) for subcutaneous administration. Under our license agreement with Sensile, we control the manufacturing and packaging of the components, which we have outsourced to third-party manufacturers. Our sc2Wear Infusor is protected by Sensile’s patent portfolio. 
 We are also leveraging our subcutaneous formulation expertise and delivery technology to develop a suite of additional product candidates that we believe can significantly decrease the cost of treatment by moving treatment away from the hospital setting and can improve patient quality of life by eliminating the need for IV catheters. We have conducted additional development work utilizing our sc2Wear Infusor to deliver ceftriaxone, a parenteral cephalosporin that is not available in an oral formulation. Based on IMS Health data, each year there are 15 million outpatient days in the United States of ceftriaxone therapy to treat various types of infections, including pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and Lyme Disease. Subcutaneous administration of ceftriaxone represents an opportunity to reduce costs to the overall health care system and improve the quality of care by reducing the complications and serious health risks associated with IV catheters and increasing patient mobility and convenience. We have conducted a pharmacokinetic study with subcutaneous ceftriaxone and intend to conduct additional clinical trials to advance its development, including a planned study in 2019 to evaluate skin safety after subcutaneous administration. We expect to submit an NDA for subcutaneous ceftriaxone in 2020. 
 Beyond furosemide and ceftriaxone, we aim to leverage our subcutaneous formulation expertise and delivery technology to develop and seek approval of additional drug candidates. We intend to conduct feasibility work on additional antibiotics and evaluate other product candidates. 
 OUR PLATFORM AND OTHER PIPELINE PROGRAMS 
 
Furoscix to Treat Decompensated Heart Failure
 Heart failure is a chronic disease resulting from impairment of the heart’s ability to pump blood and can be caused by a number of factors, including congenital conditions, history of heart attack, arrhythmias and complications of other chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Patients with heart failure are prone to retain water and salt, or fluid, in their blood stream and other tissues. Initially, a modest increase in water and salt retention and increased blood volume helps improve the pumping efficiency of the failing heart. However, as fluid accumulates beyond a useful level, heart pumping efficiency begins to diminish, and edema occurs. When fluid accumulates in the lungs, this causes breathing difficulty and compromises oxygen delivery to the patient’s tissues. This state of acute worsening of heart failure symptoms due to excessive fluid retention is referred to as decompensated heart failure. 
 2

Management of fluid retention to avoid decompensation is a primary concern of heart failure specialists and patients. Today, there are only two treatment options to manage excess fluid levels: oral loop diuretics, and IV diuresis delivered in an inpatient setting over several days. 
 Heart failure patients are commonly prescribed an oral loop diuretic to promote ongoing discharge of excess fluid through urination, or diuresis. Loop diuretics, which promote increased excretion of salt and water by the kidney into the urine and reduce the fluid volume load on the heart, are the mainstay of treatment and prevention of edema in patients with heart failure. Oral furosemide, a loop diuretic, is the market leader for the day-to-day management of edema in patients with heart failure, accounting for approximately 85% of the oral diuretics prescribed annually in the United States. 
 Even when following a regular oral loop diuretic regimen, patients with heart failure regularly experience episodes of decompensated heart failure. These episodes can be triggered by various physiological factors, some as simple as salty meals or a patient skipping doses of oral furosemide to avoid excessive urination at inconvenient times. Patients and physicians aim to prevent these episodes by monitoring for early signs of edema, such as swelling ankles, weight gain, breathing difficulty or decreased urination. At the onset of a decompensated heart failure event, physicians commonly increase the dose of the patient’s oral diuretic or add another oral diuretic in an effort to eliminate excess fluid levels. Because of the reduced bioavailability of oral doses due to edema in the gastrointestinal tract and consequent decreased absorption of the drug into the blood stream, oral loop diuretics are often insufficient to treat decompensated heart failure. This progressive accumulation of fluid overwhelms the failing heart, and the patient is eventually admitted to the hospital for treatment of the decompensated heart failure with IV diuresis.  
 Decompensation is the primary cause for patient admission to the acute care setting among adult patients with heart failure. An analysis of 585 heart failure admissions published in the American Journal of Critical Care found that 59% of admissions are attributed directly to excessive sodium retention leading to volume overload. Patients suffering from an acute-decompensation event can develop worsening symptoms rapidly and a multiday hospital admission for a more aggressive diuretic treatment with IV furosemide is almost always required to manage the decompensation. IV furosemide is universally recommended in international guidelines, including the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association’s Guideline for the Management of Heart Failure, for the treatment of edema in patients with decompensated heart failure. 
 Furoscix consists of our novel formulation of furosemide for subcutaneous administration with our wearable, portable sc2Wear Infusor for the treatment of edema in patients with heart failure. Furoscix is delivered subcutaneously through a small, 27-gauge needle, which has been observed in our clinical studies to date to provide comparable diuresis to IV furosemide with good tolerability. 
 We believe that, if approved, Furoscix has the potential to provide a safe, effective and more convenient solution that will enable IV-strength diuresis outside of the high-cost hospital setting, thereby reducing the number of days a heart failure patient remains in the hospital. We believe we can reduce the estimated 15 million days per year that heart failure patients spend in the hospital by decreasing current readmission rates, reducing the average length of stay, and reducing admission rates for patients with mild edema. 
 Subcutaneous delivery has the potential to reduce healthcare costs in the following ways: 
  
• | Reduce patient readmission: We believe Furoscix, if approved, could reduce the incidence of readmission for heart failure patients by providing IV-strength diuresis in the home environment upon discharge. Hospitals frequently discharge heart failure patients before diuresis is complete and transition them back to oral furosemide. Persistent edema reduces absorption of the oral furosemide, rendering it ineffective. As a result, patients are often readmitted to the hospital to again receive IV furosemide to complete diuresis. We believe Furoscix can break this cycle by providing IV-strength diuresis to patients upon discharge and reducing the high rate of patient readmissions for decompensated heart failure events.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Reduce patient length of stay: We believe Furoscix, if approved, could reduce the average in-hospital length of stay for heart failure patients, thereby reducing the hospitals’ economic loss attributable to extended patient admission. Transitioning from inpatient IV therapy to outpatient Furoscix would allow patients to be discharged for continued IV-strength diuresis outside the hospital setting, potentially expediting hospital discharge and reducing the associated costs to the hospital.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 3

 
• | Reduce hospital admission rates: We believe Furoscix, if approved, could in certain instances avoid a hospitalization altogether, by providing IV-strength diuresis in an outpatient setting such as the physician office, heart failure clinic or at home. Patients would have the opportunity to receive Furoscix from healthcare providers in physician offices, outpatient clinics, and at home, without necessitating hospital admission. As a result, patients with chronic heart failure would have access to Furoscix at the onset of decompensation when their oral dosage begins to fail and could obtain treatment without presenting to the hospital.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Further, through subcutaneous delivery of IV-strength furosemide, we believe we can improve patients’ quality of life by providing treatment with minimal interruption of daily living. Rather than restricting the patient to a stationary environment for an IV therapy, the wearable design of our Furoscix product candidate could potentially promote patient mobility by delivering furosemide for up to five hours while the patient resumes normal daily activities outside of the hospital. Evidence also supports that in-home care for patients with heart failure may prolong life expectancy and improve quality of life by facilitating access to the patient’s care support system. Based on our market research, we believe that patients and physicians would embrace Furoscix, if approved, if it improved patient outcomes and quality of life. 
 Clinical Development of Furoscix 
 Our Subcutaneous Formulation of Furosemide 
 In total, the Furoscix clinical development program consisted of 400 subjects across all clinical and human factor studies. To date, 127 patients have been administered our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide in our clinical studies. Based on the overall observations and outcomes of these studies, we believe that Furoscix has the potential to be used to treat edema, with diuresis results comparable to IV furosemide, while being administered by patients, care givers and healthcare practitioners outside the hospital, in clinical and home environments. 
 We have completed numerous studies during the development of Furoscix, including two pivotal clinical studies, four exploratory clinical studies, eight studies to optimize its design, referred to as formative human factor studies, and four studies to measure or validate its usability, referred to as summative human factor studies. In clinical studies, 101 subjects received our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide via the sc2Wear Infusor, and 26 subjects received our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide delivered via the B. Braun Perfusor Space Infusion Pump, or B. Braun Pump, a large, three-pound commercial pump used in operating rooms and emergency care settings. In the summative human factor studies, 41 heart failure patients, 39 caregivers and 52 healthcare practitioners were evaluated to determine their ability to prepare, administer, activate and complete infusions with the sc2Wear Infusor. 
 We held a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA on June 1, 2017 and we submitted an NDA for our lead product candidate, Furoscix, in August 2017. The FDA notified us in October 2017 that it had accepted our NDA for review and assigned us a June 23, 2018 PDUFA date. 
 Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) Study 
 We conducted a pivotal, randomized, open-label crossover study from April to September 2015 to assess the relative bioavailability of our novel formulation of furosemide and IV furosemide in 17 patients with heart failure who were experiencing decompensation. In this study, our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide was delivered via the B. Braun Pump. This study also evaluated diuresis and the excretion of sodium over eight hours and 24 hours post-dosing as the pharmacodynamic endpoints. 
 Treatment arms 
 In this study, our reference treatment was IV furosemide with two bolus injections of 40 mg dosed over two minutes, two hours apart. Our test treatment was subcutaneous administration of our novel furosemide 
 4

formulation with 80 mg infused subcutaneously, with 30 mg over the first hour followed by 12.5 mg per hour over the subsequent four hours. 
 Comparative pharmacokinetic results 
 This study demonstrated bioequivalence in the concentration of drug delivered over time based upon the area under the curve, or AUC, between our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide and IV furosemide. Although the maximum concentration, or Cmax, of furosemide achieved was four-fold higher with IV injection compared to subcutaneous infusion, the bioavailability of subcutaneous infusion relative to intravenous injection was 99.6%, with a 90% confidence interval of 94.8% to 104.8%, thus meeting the FDA’s defined bioequivalence criteria limit of 80% to 125%. We believe that the difference in Cmax between IV injection and subcutaneous furosemide is attributable to the two bolus IV injections administered at the initiation of IV therapy. Nevertheless, the longer period of administration for our subcutaneous formulation resulted in similar bioavailability profiles of the two routes of administration over time. The following table presents the comparative pharmacokinetics demonstrated in this study between our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide compared to IV furosemide as illustrated by the similar profiles for area under the curve and half life of the two formulations: 
 
 
Route: Dose | Cmax (ng/mL) | AUCt (ng×hr/mL) | t1/2 (hr) | AUC¥ (ng×hr)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------+-----------------+------------+-------------
Subcutaneous: 30 mg infused over the first hour followed by 12.5 mg per hour for the subsequent 4 hours (total dose: 80 mg) | 2040±449 | 13000±4000 | 3.16±0.911 | 13100±4010 
Intravenous: 40 mg bolus x 2 doses separated by 120 minutes (total dose: 80 mg) | 8580±2540 | 13000±4050 | 2.55±0.339 | 13200±4170 

 
Comparative pharmacodynamic results 
 The total urine sodium excretion and urine output were comparable between our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide and IV furosemide. The following graphs reflect the comparative mean total urine sodium excretion and urine output: 
 
 Phase 3 Product Design Clinical Validation (PDCV) Study 
 In October 2016, we conducted a Phase 3, open-label, single-arm, single-dose study as a clinical validation of the use of Furoscix in 74 adult heart failure patients at five clinical sites in the United States. Six of these patients were ultimately excluded from the study due to activator interruptions, and one patient was excluded due to truncated infusion, resulting in a modified intention to treat, or MITT, population of 67 patients that completed the five-hour infusion period. 
 In this study, our novel formulation of furosemide was subcutaneously administered using our sc2Wear Infusor with a preset dosage of 30 mg furosemide over the first hour, then 12.5 mg per hour for the subsequent four hours. 
 5

Primary Endpoints 
 The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the on-body performance of Furoscix, defined as the absence of major product and major system related failures leading to inadequate delivery of drug product (performance criteria of 95% passage rate with 95% confidence) in the MITT population. 
 In the MITT population, 63 of 67 (94%) Furoscix infusions were free from major system-related failure, with a 95% confidence interval of 85% to 98%. As such, this study did not meet the FDA’s prespecified performance criteria. All patients in the MITT population, however, achieved furosemide concentrations above the pre-defined target therapeutic threshold. In the four cases in which Furoscix administered dose fell below the predefined criteria of 80 mg (10 mL) ± 10%, only one was determined to be due to a dispensing failure, which resulted in the delivery of 67 mg of furosemide instead of the 72 mg minimum dose specification. The three other dispensing failures were determined to be caused by an undetected, incomplete filling of the sc2Wear Infusor, likely due to user errors, as the three incomplete fillings observed in these devices were not able to be reproduced during bench testing. When the sc2Wear Infusor was filled adequately, 63 of 64 (98%) Furoscix infusions were within the prespecified performance criteria, with a 95% confidence interval of 92% to 100%. 
 We discussed these data with the FDA at a pre-NDA meeting, held on June 1, 2017, and presented the results of a completed human factors study in which the frequency of undetected fill errors was 0%, as a result of our improvements to the quick reference guide and instructions for use. As part of our NDA submission, the FDA requested that a high-level safety assurance case be submitted just prior to the NDA submission and that certain updated risk analyses be submitted concurrently with our NDA. Although the PDCV study did not meet the prespecified endpoint, during the meeting, the FDA requested that our NDA include an assessment of the data generated from all of our studies, and stated that our NDA appeared capable of supporting a review. In connection with the NDA that we submitted to the FDA in August 2017, we submitted the materials that we believe are responsive to the requests that the FDA made at our pre-NDA meeting. We reported to the FDA that we believe Furoscix will be used as designed by patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals in the clinic and in the home, even by first-time users, as supported by our observations that risk control measures such as our training videos, customer help line, and warning labels were sufficient in reducing the possibility of user errors to an acceptable level. In addition, we represented in our submission that the FDA may deem overall residual risks acceptable because furosemide is generally considered safe and effective due to its long history of use in the U.S., Furoscix will not be indicated for emergency situations, any under-dosing or error in treatment would be readily detectable due to the noticeable pharmacological response of furosemide, and the sources of residual risk in administering Furoscix are limited to non-critical tasks that we believe do not pose a serious health hazard to users or the patient. We also submitted a safety assurance case that the design of Furoscix may be deemed safe for its intended use because we believe Furoscix is adequately defined, its design is adequately verified and validated, the risks associated with Furoscix and its system hazards have been identified and mitigated. 
 6

Secondary Analysis 
 The study also included secondary tolerability endpoints, including a comfort of wear questionnaire that was completed one hour after completion of Furoscix infusion. The graph below reflects the overall comfort reported by the patients in the MITT population: 
 

In addition, administration of Furoscix was found to have only minimal impact on participants’ daily living activities, which included walking, standing, sitting, lying down/napping, using the bathroom, or driving/riding in a car. Between 86% and 94% of participants who answered the questionnaire reported that Furoscix did not interfere with the activities reflected in the graph below: 
 
7


Safety Analysis 
 We observed no needle insertion failures, dislodgements or leaks. The most frequently observed adverse events were local skin effects, such as reddening, or erythema, bruising and pain, which were mild or moderate in severity. No patients reported infections at the infusion site. One serious adverse event was observed and determined by the investigator not to be related to Furoscix. The event was a single episode of ventricular tachycardia, or quickening of the patient’s heart rate, that occurred five days after completion of the study. The event occurred in a patient with a history of prior episodes of ventricular tachycardia. 
 Post-Hoc Comparative Analysis to Bridge the Pharmacokinetics from the PK/PD Study and Plasma Concentrations from the PDCV Study 
 The B. Braun Pump was used for subcutaneous administration of our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide in the PK/PD study and our sc2Wear Infusor was used to administer our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide in the PDCV study. Based on a pharmacokinetic bridging analysis conducted between the PK/PD and PDCV studies, comparable furosemide systemic exposures and subsequently comparable diuresis would be expected to be achieved when our subcutaneous furosemide formulation is administered via the sc2Wear Infusor compared to the B. Braun Pump. 
 The same 80 mg dose and dosing regimen of 30 mg dosed over the first hour followed by 12.5 mg/hour for the subsequent four hours, was used in both studies. Mean furosemide concentrations and the representative 95% confidence intervals obtained during the five-hour infusion from the two studies are represented in the figure below: 
 

Overall, between the first and fifth hours, the plasma furosemide concentrations were higher and more variable in the PDCV study compared to the PK/PD study, partly due to the unmatched timepoints. However, between the second and fifth hours the furosemide concentrations were similar between the two studies. The higher concentrations observed in the PDCV study were lower than the Cmax observed in the IV doses in the PK/PD study, which we believe is relevant to regulatory safety assessments of Furoscix. 
 Human Factors Summary 
 Based on results from eight formative and four summative human factors studies that we conducted from Fall 2015 to Spring 2017 to evaluate ability to independently fill the sc2Wear Infusor pump, apply the pump to the delivery site, commence infusion and confirm the completion of infusion, we believe heart failure patients, caregivers and healthcare practitioners will be able to operate Furoscix, if approved, in a home environment, clinical setting or medical facility. 
 8

A total of 83 and 132 representative users participated in formative and summative usability testing, respectively. Results from each study led to refinements to the device, packaging, instructions for use, quick reference guide and training video components to improve instructional formatting, illustrations, and descriptions. 
 Investigator Sponsored Study 
 In February 2016, an open label, randomized study of 40 patients was initiated to evaluate urine output and adverse events of our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide administered subcutaneously via B. Braun Pump compared to IV furosemide in patients with decompensated heart failure presenting to the John’s Hopkins Heart Failure Bridge Clinic. In this study, subjects randomized to receive our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide were administered a single, 80 mg dose subcutaneously over five hours and patients randomized to IV furosemide received a single dose intravenously equivalent to their oral maintenance dose up to a maximum dose of 160 mg. The mean dose of IV furosemide that was administered was 123+47 mg and 58% received the maximum 160 mg dose. The primary endpoint of the study was to evaluate urine output after six hours. From the results of this study, the investigator concluded that treatment with our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide resulted in equivalent diuresis and weight loss and was well tolerated compared to IV furosemide in patients with decompensated heart failure presenting to an outpatient heart failure clinic. There was one adverse event, an episode of hypokalemia, which is a drop in a subject’s potassium levels, observed in a subject who received our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide. In this subject, the serum potassium level at baseline was 4.1 milliequivalents per liter, or mEq/L and dropped to 3.3 mEq/L after subcutaneous infusion of furosemide, which is slightly below the normal range of 3.5 mEq/L to 5.0 mEq/L. There were no serious adverse events reported. 
Ongoing Studies 
 A two phase, multicenter study sponsored by the Duke Clinical Research Institute and funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute is currently ongoing. A pilot study designed to evaluate the safety and feasibility of subcutaneous delivery of furosemide in patients with acute heart failure in the hospital and outpatient setting is complete and a randomized evaluation of 300 patients to determine the impact of early discharge with continued diuresis with home administration of Furoscix compared to IV furosemide on clinical outcome and hospital length of stay in patients admitted to the hospital with worsening heart failure is beginning to enroll patients. We anticipate that results from this study will be available in 2020. 
 We also intend to support additional investigator sponsored studies and initiate Phase 4 studies with Furoscix to evaluate the efficacy, safety, patient acceptance and health economics and outcomes research. 
 Commercialization 
 If we successfully obtain regulatory approval, we plan to commercialize Furoscix in the United States by building and utilizing our own commercial infrastructure. We currently intend to focus our commercial efforts on the United States market, which we believe represents the largest market opportunity for Furoscix. In addition, we plan to establish collaborations with third-party intermediaries outside of the United States to distribute our products in foreign markets, if approved by the relevant foreign regulatory authorities. 
 We believe that we can effectively commercialize Furoscix, if approved, in the United States with an initial specialty sales force of approximately 35-40 representatives. We intend to initially pursue a highly-concentrated target market, which consists of 350 hospitals and associated clinics that, collectively, account for 40% of all IV furosemide administered to heart failure patients based on current IMS Drug Distribution Data. We also plan to target the top ten Medicare Part D plans, which cover 80% of Medicare Part D patients. We conducted payer research on 14 payers, representing 22 to 29 million total Medicare lives. We found that reducing length of stay, reducing readmissions and increasing patient comfort were ranked as important potential attributes of Furoscix by the health plans and pharmacy benefit managers that were surveyed. 
 We intend to build a highly concentrated commercial infrastructure focused on distribution, promotion and customer support to our key hospital targets. Our target call points within these hospitals will include heart failure specialists, cardiologists, emergency room doctors and heart failure nurse practitioners. To date, our market research with 309 healthcare professionals has indicated that 93% of our target prescribers would adopt Furoscix, if approved, with 80% intending to adopt Furoscix in the first six months of product availability. Furthermore, within the prescriber group of heart failure specialists, cardiologists and nurse practitioners that we intend to target at launch, the intent to adopt is 93%, 96% and 94%, respectively, and 89%, 88% and 86%, respectively, of those prescribers intend to adopt in the first six months of product availability. Based on our market research, healthcare professionals perceive the top advantages of Furoscix, if approved, as the ability to treat in the home setting, 
 9

prevention of hospitalization, and avoidance of IV placement, while the lowest perceived barriers to adoption identified in the survey were the preference to monitor in a hospital setting, current medications are sufficient and hospital guidelines or protocols. In addition, based on a last two patient exercise conducted in our quantitative market research with healthcare professionals, when given the option to change their prior treatment choice to Furoscix, if approved, 65% of healthcare practitioners in a clinic setting and 46% in a hospital setting would have prescribed our product candidate. We expect to supplement our sales force with representatives in the medical science, nursing, and reimbursement field personnel to support the proper training and utilization of Furoscix. 
 As part of our commercialization strategy, we plan to educate hospitals, healthcare practitioners, patients and caregivers of the benefits of Furoscix and its proper use. We plan to work with national associations, such as the American Heart Association, hospital networks, and individual hospitals to update treatment and discharge guidelines to include subcutaneous furosemide in treatment plans. These guidelines are intended to provide information to hospitals and healthcare practitioners regarding treatment of heart failure patients with subcutaneous furosemide. 
 We expect to package Furoscix, if approved, as both a starter and refill kit, which may present opportunities under both Medicare Part B and D reimbursement pathways. Hospital outpatient departments, clinics, and physician offices would be able to train and initially place Furoscix for the patient and may be reimbursed for these services under Medicare Part B, so long as certain criteria are met. Inpatients transitioning out of the hospital who require additional days of treatment may obtain Furoscix refill kits outside of the acute care setting. In April 2016, we held a meeting with CMS, at which CMS stated that coverage and reimbursement of Furoscix may be available under Medicare Part D as a transition of care drug. By educating patients on the proper use of Furoscix shortly after discharge followed by a face-to-face visit, health care professionals can ensure proper training, initiate treatment at the point of care, and ensure that patients can receive additional days of treatment in the home setting. 
 
Our Pipeline Programs 
 Beyond our initial focus on heart failure, our strategy is to apply our proprietary technology for the development of additional product candidates where, if approved, effective and convenient subcutaneous therapy may benefit patients, caregivers and payers. 

• | scFurosemide: Our lead product candidate, Furoscix, consists of our proprietary subcutaneous formulation of furosemide delivered via our sc2Wear Infusor for diuresis in heart failure patients outside of the acute care setting. We have completed two pivotal clinical studies, four exploratory clinical studies, and 12 human factor studies for Furoscix. We filed an NDA for Furoscix with the FDA in August 2017 and, if the NDA is approved by the FDA, which we expect to potentially occur in mid-2018 based on the June 23, 2018 PDUFA date assigned to us, we expect to make Furoscix available within 90 days of such approval.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | scCeftriaxone: We have filed an investigational new drug application, or IND, for scCeftriaxone, an antibiotic currently used intravenously for the treatment of infections caused by gram-positive and gram-negative organisms. To date, we have completed a PK study for scCeftriaxone and plan to conduct a skin study in 2019 to support an expected NDA filing in 2020.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | scCarbapenem: We have completed several IND-enabling studies for our scCarbapenem program, an antibiotic currently used intravenously for the treatment of infections caused by gram-negative organisms.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ceftriaxone 
 Many patients with an infection requiring IV antibiotics are admitted to the hospital, and a portion of these patients will require subsequent outpatient treatment with IV administration requiring insertion of a PICC line catheter. Ceftriaxone is a parenteral antibiotic commonly used to treat various types of infections, including pneumonia, bone and joint infections, blood stream infections, urinary tract infections and Lyme Disease. According to 2015 data from Arlington Medical Resources, ceftriaxone is the second most utilized antibiotic in the hospital setting and second most utilized IV antibiotic at hospital discharge. Based on Option Care data from August 2016, ceftriaxone represents the largest segment of antibiotics prescribed in the outpatient setting, accounting for 19% of all outpatient prescriptions. Each year, there are approximately 15 million outpatient days of ceftriaxone therapy in the United States based on IMS Health data, with 50% of outpatient ceftriaxone administered to Medicare patients who do not have coverage for home infusion services and frequently must drive to a hospital clinic, 
 10

emergency room or physician office or be admitted to a skilled nursing facility or hospital to receive IV antibiotics. Subcutaneous antibiotics, including ceftriaxone, have the potential to reduce the length of hospital stay by facilitating transition of care and eliminate the risks of complications from long term IV catheters. They also would provide a level of convenience and independence to patients and caregivers with a potential reduction in the economic burden to payers, particularly in Medicare, by reducing payments for outpatient infusion services. 
 After the submission of the IND we conducted a randomized, partially blinded crossover study of 18 patients to evaluate the PK and bioavailability of a commercial formulation of ceftriaxone administered subcutaneously as compared to IV administration. In this study, we observed that the bioavailability of subcutaneous ceftriaxone was 108% of that of IV ceftriaxone. In a PD model based on subcutaneous pharmacokinetics observed in this study, the T>MIC for the first 24 hours for the ceftriaxone 1-gram subcutaneous infusion was observed to be not inferior to the 1-gram IV infusion (98.5% vs 100%). The most common adverse event observed with subcutaneous ceftriaxone administration was pain with a median pain score of two on a scale of zero to ten (with zero being no pain and ten being the worst possible pain). There were no serious adverse events reported in this study. 
 We intend to conduct additional studies to evaluate optimal delivery for ceftriaxone and to evaluate the skin safety of ceftriaxone administered subcutaneously with our proprietary sc2Wear Infusor. If results from our clinical program for subcutaneous ceftriaxone are positive, we expect to be in a position to submit an NDA for this drug-device combination product candidate in 2020. 
 Additional Product Programs 
 We are leveraging our proprietary technology and know-how for use in other clinical settings where subcutaneous delivery can improve IV treatments to develop a suite of product candidates for treatment of cardiovascular and infectious diseases that, like Furoscix and ceftriaxone, we believe can decrease the cost of treatment by moving treatment out of the hospital setting and eliminating the need for IV catheters. We expect to pursue the development of a subcutaneous carbapenem to treat infections caused by gram-negative infections and have completed initial feasibility work on a potential candidate. We also intend to identify other opportunities in the cardiovascular and infectious disease areas where subcutaneous delivery can improve patient treatment and reduce healthcare costs. We intend to evaluate market criteria to systematically choose potential product programs for our pipeline. We plan to look for product candidates that we believe allow us to clearly demonstrate value to patients and the healthcare system and that have large market potential and a concentrated specialty physician prescribing base. We expect to leverage our Furoscix sales force to promote additional products that we develop and commercialize. 
Our sc2Wear Infusor 
 Our sc2Wear Infusor is based on the SenseCore single-use, rotary micro-piston pump, which we license from Sensile. The sc2Wear Infusor is a two-component system, consisting of a reusable activator and a disposable cartridge. The disposable, single-use cartridge contains all patient-contacting and drug-contacting components, including the micro-piston pump, an automatic needle insertion and retraction mechanism, a fluid reservoir barrel and a base plate and an adhesive backing that holds the system onto the patient’s skin for subcutaneous administration of medications. The reusable activator includes visual and audible indicators for ease of use and administration. 
 The sc2Wear Infusor is applied to the patient’s abdomen. When the device is activated, the pump propels the medication through a fluid path and delivers the drug formulation through a thin, 27-gauge needle into the patient’s subcutaneous tissue. Our subcutaneous delivery system can be worn while patients perform typical daily life activities during that time, which we believe allows patients to receive treatment with minimal interference with their daily routine. 
 Each rotation of the piston pump corresponds to a 10 µL administration of drug formulation. The activator can be programmed to allow for delivery of a precise dosage of a drug to obtain a given pharmacokinetic profile. The dosage is pre-programmed and cannot be altered by the user or healthcare provider. 
 11

The figures below illustrate the primary components of the sc2Wear Infusor. 
 


MANUFACTURE OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES 
 We use a network of qualified suppliers or contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to produce, manufacture, sterilize and assemble the component parts of our product candidates, including Furoscix. Our suppliers produce these component parts to our designs and specifications. Certain processes utilized in the manufacture and test of our product candidates have been verified and validated as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. The manufacturing facilities of our suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and certain corresponding state agencies, and we regularly audit our suppliers’ processes to ensure conformity with the specifications, policies and procedures for our product candidates. 
 We currently produce Furoscix for use in our clinical trials and stability studies only. We believe that our current third-party manufacturers have capacity for potential commercialization of Furoscix, if approved, in quantities 
 12

sufficient to meet our expected commercial needs, and to accommodate the manufacturing of materials for future clinical trials of other potential product programs that we may identify for our product pipeline. 
 In preparation of the potential commercial launch of Furoscix, if approved, we plan to automate the manufacture and assembly of both the single-use and multi-use component parts of our sc2Wear Infusor by our existing third-party suppliers. We expect that this automation will further increase our capacity to manufacture commercial-size batches of Furoscix sufficient to meet projected peak global demand. 
 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 Proprietary protection 
 Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, manufacturing and process discoveries and other know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We and our partners have been building and continue to build our intellectual property portfolio relating to our product candidates and technology. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and certain foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business. We also intend to rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and potential in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us or our partners in the future will be commercially useful in protecting our technology. 
 Patent rights 
 Patent life determination depends on the date of filing of the application and other factors as promulgated under the patent laws. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is generally 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date of a non-provisional patent application in the applicable country. 
 scFurosemide formulation 
 As of February 14, 2018, we own a patent family directed to the composition of matter of our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide and methods of treating edema, hypertension and heart failure using the formulation of furosemide. This patent family includes U.S. Patent No. 9,884,039, directed to methods of treatment, one pending U.S. patent application directed to liquid pharmaceutical formulations, one pending patent application in each of Canada, China, Europe and Japan, and one granted patent and eight pending patent applications in other countries outside of the United States. Patents that issue from this patent family are generally expected to expire in 2034, excluding any additional term for patent term adjustment. U.S. Patent No. 9,884,039 is scheduled to expire in April 2034.
 Tri- and bi-phasic dosing regimens for time-dependent antibiotics 
 As of February 14, 2018, we own a patent family directed to methods of treating infections and other diseases using a tri-phasic or a bi-phasic dosing regimen of a time-dependent antibiotic, which methods can include subcutaneous delivery via a micropump or patch pump device. This patent family includes one pending U.S. patent application, one pending patent application in Europe, and one pending patent application in another country outside of the United States. Patents that issue from this patent family are generally expected to expire in 2035, excluding any additional term for patent term adjustment. 
 Trade secret and other protection 
 In addition to patented intellectual property, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position, especially when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or can be obtained. Our policy is to require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality and inventions assignment agreement before beginning their employment, consulting or advisory relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that the individual must keep confidential and not disclose to other parties any confidential information developed or learned by the individual during the course of 
 13

the individual’s relationship with us except in limited circumstances. These agreements generally also provide that we shall own all inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us. 
 Other intellectual property rights 
 We file trademark applications and pursue registrations in the United States and abroad when appropriate. We own U.S. Registration No. 4851675 for the mark SCPHARMACEUTICALS for pharmaceutical preparations and substances for the treatment of cardiovascular and cardiopulmonary diseases and disorders. We also own pending trademark applications for scPharmaceuticals, sc2Wear, and Furoscix in the United States and the EU for use in connection with our pharmaceutical research and development as well as products, as well as trade names that could be used with our potential products. 
 From time to time, we may find it necessary or prudent to obtain licenses from third-party intellectual property holders. 
 Sensile License Agreement 
 In June 2015, we entered into a license agreement with Sensile Medical AG and its former affiliates, Sensile Holding AG and Sensile Patent AG, which we refer to collectively as Sensile, through which we have been granted, except as described below, an exclusive worldwide license under certain intellectual property rights owned or controlled by Sensile, to develop, commercialize and sell a drug-device combination product for subcutaneous administration in a defined field, which includes generic loop diuretics, certain generic therapies for cardiovascular indications, and certain generic infectious disease therapies, including antibiotics. Sensile has also granted us an exclusive worldwide manufacturing license to permit us, or an alternative supplier, to make the drug-device combination product described above, which we have outsourced to third-party manufacturers. Under the license agreement, we have been licensed a patent portfolio of over ten patent families directed to drug pump technology, at least three families of which are applicable to our sc2Wear Infusor. These three families include certain granted patents and pending patent applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, certain European countries, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, and South Korea. Patents in these three families will begin expiring in the 2024 to 2026 time frame, with certain patent rights extending from 2027 to 2030 and possibly 2034, subject to payment of annuity and maintenance fees and further subject to possible patent term extension. We own the improvements resulting from the development activities, whether by us or by Sensile, related to the drugs and the product or components thereof. Sensile owns the improvements resulting from development activities related to the device and its manufacturing process which are not specific to the device. 
 We are subject to diligence obligations to achieve certain milestones set forth in the license agreement. For example, we are required to commence commercial sales of an approved product for loop diuretics within twelve months after obtaining regulatory approval in such country or region. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of a product in the United States, we are required to submit that product for regulatory approval in the European Union within twelve months, and all other countries within 24 months after the first commercial sale of such product in the United States. The license agreement also requires us to secure FDA approval of the product within 24 months after our submission of an NDA which, in the case of Furoscix, we submitted in August 2017. In the event that we fail to comply with these diligence obligations, we may lose exclusivity in the field of loop diuretics under the license. 
 As consideration for the license, we are required to pay a low- to mid-single digit fee on certain components within the product that are sold to a third party or used in clinical trials. In addition, we are required to pay a low- to mid-single digit royalty on net sales of products covered by the license. Such royalty obligations cease with respect to the geographies or products for which we lose exclusivity, or in the event that Sensile materially breaches an obligation. 
 Either we or Sensile may terminate the license agreement if the other party commits a material breach and fails to cure such breach within 90 days after written notice, or upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, dissolution or winding up of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the license agreement for any reason, upon 60 days’ prior written notice. 
 14

COMPETITION 
 Our industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition and potential competition from a number of sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, generic drug companies, drug delivery companies and academic and research institutions. We believe the key competitive factors that will affect the development and commercial success of our product candidates include ease of administration and convenience of dosing, therapeutic efficacy, safety and tolerability profiles and cost. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, as well as more experience in the development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and the commercialization of those products. Consequently, our competitors may develop similar products for the treatment of heart failure or for other indications we may pursue in the future, and such competitors’ products may be more effective, better tolerated and less costly than our product candidates. Our competitors may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we are. We will also face competition in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials. 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION 
 United States Drug Development 
 In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and combinations of drugs and devices, or combination products, under the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include, among other actions, the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, untitled or warning letters, requests for voluntary product recalls or withdrawals from the market, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 
 Our product candidates are subject to regulation as combination products, which means that they are composed of both a drug product and device product. If marketed individually, each component would be subject to different regulatory pathways and reviewed by different Centers within the FDA. A combination product, however, is assigned to a Center that will have primary jurisdiction over its regulation based on a determination of the combination product’s primary mode of action, which is the single mode of action that provides the most important therapeutic action. In the case of our product candidates, the primary mode of action is attributable to the drug component of the product, which means that the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research has primary jurisdiction over the premarket development, review and approval of our product candidates. Accordingly, we plan to investigate our products through the IND framework and seek approval through the NDA pathway. Based on our discussions with the FDA to date, we do not anticipate that the FDA will require a separate medical device authorization for the device, but this could change during the course of its review of any marketing application that we may submit. The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:
  
• | completion of extensive pre-clinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in accordance with applicable regulations, including the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with an applicable IND and other clinical study related regulations, sometimes referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its proposed indication;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | submission to the FDA of an NDA;
--+---------------------------------


• | satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice requirements, or cGMP;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 15

 
• | potential FDA audit of the clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing or sale.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Once a pharmaceutical product candidate is identified for development, it enters the pre-clinical testing stage. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity, formulation and stability, as well as animal studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, to the FDA as part of the IND. The sponsor must also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the initial clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated if the initial clinical trial lends itself to an efficacy evaluation. Some pre-clinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed clinical trial and places the trial on a clinical hold within that 30-day period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Clinical holds also may be imposed by the FDA at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance, and may be imposed on all drug products within a certain class of drugs. The FDA also can impose partial clinical holds, for example, prohibiting the initiation of clinical trials of a certain duration or for a certain dose. 
 All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP regulations. These regulations include the requirement that all research subjects provide informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Further, an institutional review board, or IRB, must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at any institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. An IRB considers, among other things, whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trial are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the information regarding the clinical trial and the consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. 
 Each new clinical protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted for FDA review, and to the IRBs for approval. Protocols detail, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. 
 Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 
  
• | Phase 1. The product is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or patients and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product is suspected or known to be unavoidably toxic, the initial human testing may be conducted in patients.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 2. Involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and schedule.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit relationship of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Post-approval trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. In certain instances, the FDA may mandate the performance of Phase 4 trials. Companies that conduct certain clinical trials also are required to register them and post the results of completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database, such as ClinicalTrials.gov in the United States, within certain timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. 
 Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials, among other information, must be submitted at least annually to the FDA, and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events, findings from other studies that suggest a significant risk to humans 
 16

exposed to the product, findings from animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk to human subjects, and any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the clinical trial sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study. The clinical trial sponsor may also suspend or terminate a clinical trial based on evolving business objectives and/or competitive climate. 
 Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the product and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 
 NDA and FDA Review Process 
 The results of product development, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the drug, proposed labeling and other relevant information, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA for a new drug, requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of a substantial user fee, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to an annual program user fee; although a waiver of such fee may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. For example, the agency will waive the application fee for the first human drug application that a small business or its affiliate submits for review. 
 The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. The FDA typically makes a decision on accepting an NDA for filing within 60 days of receipt. The decision to accept the NDA for filing means that the FDA has made a threshold determination that the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA’s goal to complete its substantive review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant is ten months from the receipt of the NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates, and the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification and may go through multiple review cycles. 
 After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the NDA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMPs to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel drug products or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. The FDA will likely re-analyze the clinical trial data, which could result in extensive discussions between the FDA and us during the review process. The review and evaluation of an NDA by the FDA is extensive and time consuming and may take longer than originally planned to complete, and we may not receive a timely approval, if at all. 
 Before approving an NDA, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities for the new product to determine whether they comply with cGMPs. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. In addition, before approving an NDA, the FDA may also audit data from clinical trials to ensure compliance with GCP requirements. After the FDA evaluates the application, manufacturing process and manufacturing facilities, it may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review 
 17

cycle of the application is complete and the application will not be approved in its present form. A Complete Response Letter usually describes all the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data and/or an additional pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial(s), and/or other significant and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, nonclinical studies or manufacturing. If a Complete Response Letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. Even if such data and information are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive, and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. 
 There is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately approve a product for marketing in the United States, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs during the review process. If a product receives marketing approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling or may condition the approval of the NDA on other changes to the proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct post-market testing or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. For example, the FDA may require Phase 4 clinical trials to further assess drug safety and effectiveness and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. The FDA may also place other conditions on approvals including the requirement for a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to assure the safe use of the drug. If the FDA concludes a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the NDA without an approved REMS, if required. A REMS could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. Any of these limitations on approval or marketing could restrict the commercial promotion, distribution, prescription or dispensing of products. Product approvals may be withdrawn for non-compliance with regulatory requirements or if problems occur following initial marketing. 
 505(b)(2) Approval Process 
 Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA provides an alternate regulatory pathway for the FDA to approve a new product and permits reliance for such approval on published literature or an FDA finding of safety and effectiveness for a previously approved drug product. Specifically, section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where one or more of the investigations relied upon by the applicant for approval were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The applicant may rely upon published literature and/or the FDA’s findings of safety and effectiveness for a previously approved drug. Typically, 505(b)(2) applicants must perform additional trials to support the change from the previously approved drug and to further demonstrate the new product’s safety and effectiveness. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the labeled indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the section 505(b)(2) applicant. 
 Our subcutaneous formulation of furosemide is based upon an already approved version of furosemide in oral and IV formulations, rather than a new chemical entity product candidate. Accordingly, we expect to be able to submit a 505(b)(2) application that relies on FDA’s prior findings of safety and effectiveness for previously-approved oral and/or IV furosemide in our clinical development plans and our NDA submission. 
 Regulation of Combination Products in the United States 
 Certain products may be comprised of components, such as drug components and device components, that would normally be regulated under different types of regulatory authorities, and frequently by different centers at the FDA. These products are known as combination products. Specifically, under regulations issued by the FDA, a combination product may be: 

• | a product comprised of two or more regulated components that are physically, chemically, or otherwise combined or mixed and produced as a single entity;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | two or more separate products packaged together in a single package or as a unit and comprised of drug and device products, device and biological products, or biological and drug products;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | a drug, or device, or biological product packaged separately that according to its investigational plan or proposed labeling is intended for use only with an approved individually specified drug, or device, or
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 18

 
biological product where both are required to achieve the intended use, indication, or effect and where upon approval of the proposed product the labeling of the approved product would need to be changed, e.g., to reflect a change in intended use, dosage form, strength, route of administration, or significant change in dose; or
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | any investigational drug, or device, or biological product packaged separately that according to its proposed labeling is for use only with another individually specified investigational drug, device, or biological product where both are required to achieve the intended use, indication, or effect.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Under the FDCA and its implementing regulations, the FDA is charged with assigning a center with primary jurisdiction, or a lead center, for review of a combination product. The designation of a lead center generally eliminates the need to receive approvals from more than one FDA component for combination products, although it does not preclude consultations by the lead center with other components of FDA. The determination of which center will be the lead center is based on the “primary mode of action” of the combination product. Thus, if the primary mode of action of a drug-device combination product is attributable to the drug product, the FDA center responsible for premarket review of the drug product would have primary jurisdiction for the combination product. The FDA has also established an Office of Combination Products to address issues surrounding combination products and provide more certainty to the regulatory review process. That office serves as a focal point for combination product issues for agency reviewers and industry. It is also responsible for developing guidance and regulations to clarify the regulation of combination products, and for assignment of the FDA center that has primary jurisdiction for review of combination products where the jurisdiction is unclear or in dispute. 
 A combination product with a drug primary mode of action generally would be reviewed and approved pursuant to the drug approval processes under the FDCA. In reviewing the NDA or 505(b)(2) application for such a product, however, FDA reviewers in the drug center could consult with their counterparts in the device center to ensure that the device component of the combination product met applicable requirements regarding safety, effectiveness, durability and performance. In addition, under FDA regulations, combination products are subject to cGMP requirements applicable to both drugs and devices, including the Quality System, or QS, regulations applicable to medical devices. 
 Drug-device combination products present unique challenges for competitors seeking approval of Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDA, for generic versions of combination products. Generally, FDA reviews both the drug and device constituents of a proposed generic product to determine whether it is the same as the innovator product, including whether the basic design and operating principles of the device component are the same and whether minor differences require significant differences in labeling for safe and effective use. If FDA determines that the device component of the proposed generic product is not the same in terms of performance and critical design, or that the labeling is not the same, it generally will not approve the ANDA. Likewise, if FDA determines that certain clinical studies, such as clinical usability or human factors studies, are necessary to demonstrate the safety and/or effectiveness of the device component, FDA generally will not accept or approve an ANDA for a combination product and will instead require the submission of a full NDA or 505(b)(2) application. 
 Post-Marketing Requirements 
 Any products for which we receive FDA approval are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, monitoring and recordkeeping activities, reporting to the applicable regulatory authorities of adverse events with the product, providing the regulatory authorities with updated safety and efficacy information, and product sampling and distribution requirements in accordance with the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, a part of the FDCA. Moreover, each component of a combination product retains their regulatory status (as a drug or device, for example) and is subject to the requirements established by the FDA for that type of component. The FDA strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. 
 Prescription drug advertising is subject to federal, state and foreign regulations. In the United States, the FDA regulates prescription drug promotion and advertising, including direct-to-consumer advertising. Prescription drug promotional materials must be submitted to the FDA in conjunction with their first use. In addition, a pharmaceutical company must comply with restrictions on promoting drugs for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the drug’s approved labeling (known as “off-label use”), limitations on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and requirements for promotional activities involving the internet. Although 
 19

physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for off-label uses, manufacturers typically may not market or promote such off-label uses. 
 In the United States, once a product is approved, its manufacture is subject to comprehensive and continuing regulation by the FDA. The FDA regulations require that combination products be manufactured in specific approved facilities and in accordance with cGMPs applicable to drugs and devices, including certain QS requirements. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products in accordance with cGMP regulations. cGMP regulations require among other things, quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and the obligation to investigate and correct any deviations from cGMP. Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMPs and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. These regulations also impose certain organizational, procedural and documentation requirements with respect to manufacturing and quality assurance activities. NDA holders using contract manufacturers, laboratories or packagers are responsible for the selection and monitoring of qualified firms, and, in certain circumstances, qualified suppliers to these firms. These firms and, where applicable, their suppliers are subject to inspections by the FDA at any time, and the discovery of violative conditions, including failure to conform to cGMPs, could result in enforcement actions that interrupt the operation of any such facilities or the ability to distribute products manufactured, processed or tested by them. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved NDA, including, among other things, recall or withdrawal of the product from the market. 
 The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or the failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements can have negative consequences, including adverse publicity, judicial or administrative enforcement, untitled or warning letters from the FDA, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, and civil or criminal penalties, among others. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and may require the implementation of other risk management measures. Also, new government requirements, including those resulting from new legislation, may be established, or the FDA’s policies may change, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development and impact approved products already on the market. 
 Other Regulatory Matters 
 The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to additional requirements and regulations, including extensive record-keeping, licensing, storage and security requirements intended to prevent the unauthorized sale of pharmaceutical products. 
 The failure to comply with regulatory requirements subjects firms to possible legal or regulatory action. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, voluntary recall, seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of product approvals, exclusion from federal healthcare programs, or refusal to allow a firm to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. In addition, even if a firm complies with FDA and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA to modify or withdraw product approval. Prohibitions or restrictions on sales or withdrawal of future products marketed by us could materially affect our business in an adverse way. 
 Changes in regulations, statutes or the interpretation of existing regulations could impact our business in the future by requiring, for example: (i) changes to our manufacturing arrangements; (ii) additions or modifications to product labeling; (iii) the voluntary recall or discontinuation of our products; or (iv) additional record-keeping requirements. If any such changes were to be imposed, they could adversely affect the operation of our business. 
 20

Orphan Designation and Exclusivity 
 The FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Alternatively, orphan drug designation may be available if the disease of the condition affects more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making the drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States. 
 Orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages, and user-fee waivers. In addition, if a product is the first to receive FDA approval of the indication for which it has orphan designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority over the product with orphan exclusivity. 
 U.S. Marketing Exclusivity 
 Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA can also delay the submission or the approval of certain marketing applications, including 505(b)(2) applications. The FDA provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA (including a 505(b)(2) application), or supplement to an existing NDA, if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. Three-year exclusivity is typically awarded to innovative changes to a previously-approved drug product, such as new indications, dosage forms or strengths. This three-year exclusivity covers only the modification for which the drug received approval on the basis of the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving applications for drugs that do not have the innovative change, such as generic copies of the original, unmodified drug product. Three-year exclusivity blocks approval of 505(b)(2) applications and ANDAs but will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the nonclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Orphan drug exclusivity, as described below, may offer a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, except in certain circumstances. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection and patent terms, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued “Written Request” for such a trial. 
European Orphan Designation and Exclusivity 
 In the European Union, the EMA’s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, or COMP, grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions that affect not more than five in 10,000 persons in the European Union Community, or when, without incentives, it is unlikely that sales of such products in the European Union would be sufficient to justify the necessary investment in developing the products. Additionally, orphan drug designation is only available where no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of the condition has been authorized (or the product would be a significant benefit to those affected). 
 In the European Union, orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and 10 years of market exclusivity is granted following medicinal product approval. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Market exclusivity would not prevent the approval of a similar drug that is shown to be safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. 
 Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements 
 In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, we may be subject to various federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. In addition, we may be 
 21

subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: 
  
• | the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe, or rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act or federal civil money penalties statute;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, which impose criminal and civil penalties and authorize civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for, among other things: knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent; making, using or causing to be made or used, a false statement or record material to a false or fraudulent claim or obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government; or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | the anti-inducement law, which prohibits, among other things, the offering or giving of remuneration, which includes, without limitation, any transfer of items or services for free or for less than fair market value (with limited exceptions), to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular supplier of items or services reimbursable by a federal or state governmental program;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payer (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters; similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve the use, or disclosure of, individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | the federal transparency requirements under the Affordable Care Act, including the provision commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program to report annually to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | federal government price reporting laws, which require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics in an accurate and timely manner to government programs; and
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 22

Additionally, we are subject to state and non-U.S. equivalents of each of the healthcare laws described above, among others, some of which may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of the payer. Many U.S. states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not just governmental payers, including private insurers. In addition, some states have passed laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and/or the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America’s Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. Several states also impose other marketing restrictions or require pharmaceutical companies to make marketing or price disclosures to the state. There are ambiguities as to what is required to comply with these state requirements and if we fail to comply with an applicable state law requirement we could be subject to penalties. Finally, there are state and non-U.S. laws governing the privacy and security of health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 
 Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. 
 Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including penalties, fines, imprisonment and/or exclusion or suspension from federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions on behalf of the U.S. government under the federal False Claims Act as well as under the false claims laws of several states. 
 Neither the U.S. government nor the U.S. courts have provided definitive guidance on the application of fraud and abuse laws to our business. Law enforcement authorities are increasingly focused on enforcing these laws, and it is possible that some of our practices may be challenged under these laws. Efforts to ensure that our current and future business arrangements with third parties, and our business generally, will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices, including our arrangements with physicians and other healthcare providers, some of whom receive stock options as compensation for services provided, may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, disgorgement, monetary fines, imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. In addition, the approval and commercialization of any of our drug candidates outside the United States will also likely subject us to non-U.S. equivalents of the healthcare laws mentioned above, among other non-U.S. laws. 
 If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs, which may also adversely affect our business. 
 Healthcare Reform 
 A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and other third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medical products. For example, in March 2010, the Affordable Care Act was enacted, which, among other things, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by most manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program; introduced a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; extended the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to utilization of prescriptions of individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care plans; imposed mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries as a condition for manufacturers’ outpatient drugs coverage under Medicare Part D; subjected drug manufacturers to new annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal healthcare programs; imposed a new federal excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices; created a new Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; 
 23

and established the a Center for Medicare Innovation at the CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending. 
 Since its enactment, there have been a number of significant changes to the Affordable Care Act. The 2017 Tax Reform Act includes a provision repealing the individual coverage mandate, effective January 1, 2019.  On October 13, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order terminating the cost-sharing subsidies that reimburse insurers under the Affordable Care Act. Several state Attorneys General filed suit to stop the administration from terminating the subsidies, but their request for a restraining order was denied by a federal judge in California on October 25, 2017.  In addition, CMS has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the Affordable Care Act for plans sold through such marketplaces. In January 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Affordable Care Act to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Congress will likely consider other legislation to replace or modify elements of the Affordable Care Act. We continue to evaluate the effect that the Affordable Care Act and its possible repeal, replacement or further modification could have on our business. 
 In addition, the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 led to aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year that will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. Further, on January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act was signed into law, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. More recently, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which have resulted in several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for pharmaceutical products. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. 
 We expect that additional foreign, federal and state healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in limited coverage and reimbursement and reduced demand for our products, once approved, or additional pricing pressures. 
 Coverage and Reimbursement 
 Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidate for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend, in part, on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. Third-party payers include government authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payer will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the reimbursement rate that the payer will pay for the product. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication. A decision by a third-party payer not to cover our product candidates could reduce physician utilization of our products once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, a payer’s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 
 In addition, coverage and reimbursement for products can differ significantly from payer to payer. One third-party payer’s decision to cover a particular medical product or service does not ensure that other payers will also provide coverage for the medical product or service, or will provide coverage at an adequate reimbursement rate. 
 24

As a result, the coverage determination process will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately and will be a time-consuming process. 
 Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In order to obtain and maintain coverage and reimbursement for any product, we may need to conduct expensive clinical trials in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of such product, in addition to the costs required to obtain regulatory approvals. Our products may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. If third-party payers do not consider a product to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover the product as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow a company to sell its products at a profit. 
 Outside of the United States, the pricing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is subject to governmental control in many countries. For example, in the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular therapy to currently available therapies or so-called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. Other countries may allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control product volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. Efforts to control prices and utilization of pharmaceutical products and medical devices will likely continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures. 
 Employees 
 As of December 31, 2017, we had 29 employees, including six in commercial operations, six in research and development, 11 in clinical and medical affairs, regulatory affairs and quality assurance and six in finance, general administrative and executive administration. 27 employees are full time employees and two are part time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are parties to a collective bargaining agreement and we believe that our employee relations are good. 
Facilities 
 Our principal executive offices are located in a 13,066 square foot facility in Burlington, Massachusetts. The term of the lease for our facility extends through November 2022. Our facility houses our research and development, sales, marketing, finance and administrative activities. We believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future and that suitable additional space will be available as and when needed. 
 25

