Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business
Overview
Organizations of all sizes are faced with a more sophisticated and motivated set of cyber attackers. Coupled with an increasingly complex IT environment and expanding attack surface, driven by mobility and a shift to the cloud, security and IT teams are struggling to maintain adequate levels of cyber security, provide visibility to their management teams, and meet increasing regulatory requirements. At the same time, they must navigate a shortage of capable cyber security professionals. Out of these challenges, the concept of Security Operations, or SecOps, is emerging. SecOps is a movement that recognizes that Security and IT Operations must work together to deliver better security and more nimbly adapt to emerging threats, without adding significant resources. SecOps requires solutions that provide visibility, analytics and automation that enable IT, Security and DevOps to work together to achieve significantly higher levels of productivity and success.
Rapid7 is a leading provider of security and IT analytics and automation solutions for SecOps and is trusted by professionals around the world to provide visibility, analytics and automation to help manage risk, simplify IT complexity and drive innovation. Our solutions, which include vulnerability management, incident detection and response, security information and event management, or SIEM, application security testing, log analytics, and security orchestration and automation all focus on the critical needs of enterprises for greater visibility into their environments, analytics that provide context to complex data, and automation that enables SecOps teams to scale and more efficiently address critical security and IT tasks.
We combine our extensive experience in collecting data from an ever-expanding IT environment, our deep insight into attacker behaviors and techniques, and our powerful and proprietary analytics to provide solutions that can quickly and efficiently identify and prioritize risks and active threats in an enterprise’s IT environment. Our broad data collection capabilities encompass endpoints, servers, applications, users, cloud-based assets, client devices, network activity, log data and information from third-party applications. We also provide workflows and automations that can enable and accelerate remediation of these risks and active threats. We have designed our solutions to be easy to deploy and use for security and IT teams of all sizes.
We offer analytic solutions across the following three core areas of SecOps: 

• | Our Vulnerability Management offerings include our industry-leading vulnerability management, web application security testing and attack simulation products. These solutions provide enterprises with comprehensive, yet prioritized, visibility into potential cyber risks across their IT environment. We have also added remediation workflows to help ensure that these risks can be easily mitigated.


• | Our Incident Detection and Response solutions are designed to enable organizations to rapidly detect and respond to cyber security incidents and breaches across physical, virtual and cloud assets, including those associated with the behaviors of their users. These solutions combine the collection of massive amounts of data with our core analytics and machine-learning-driven user behavioral analytics to simplify the task of identifying and responding to potential breaches.


• | Our IT Analytics and Automation solutions are designed to allow operations teams to quickly gain visibility into their IT environment and facilitate automated workflows to eliminate repetitive, manual and labor-intensive tasks.

Finally, to complement SecOps products, we offer a range of managed services based on our software solutions and professional services, including incident response services, security advisory services, and deployment and training.
As of December 31, 2017, we had more than 7,000 customers, including 52% of the organizations in the Fortune 100. We have experienced strong revenue growth with revenue increasing from $60.0 million in 2013 to $200.9 million in 2017, representing a 35% compound annual growth rate. In 2017, 70% of our revenues were recurring revenues compared to 67% in 2016. We incurred net losses of $45.5 million, $49.0 million and $49.9 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, as we continued to invest for long-term growth.
Recent Developments
On January 30, 2018, we closed on a public offering of 5,950,000 shares of our common stock, of which 1,500,000 shares of common stock were sold by us and 4,450,000 shares of common stock were sold by certain existing stockholders, at an offering price of $22.00 per share, including 770,000 shares pursuant to the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares from the selling stockholders. Our net proceeds from the offering were $30.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us. We did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders.
2

Our Analytics and Automation Cloud
Our Insight Platform is at the core of our SecOps product offerings. The platform was built in the cloud using our extensive experience in collecting and analyzing data to enable our customers to create and manage active, analytics-driven cyber security and IT operations management programs. Our robust data collection architecture supports gathering a wide swath of organizational and environmental data from endpoints to the cloud, including key data about user-specific behavior. By utilizing our powerful, proprietary analytics to assess and understand the context and relationships around users, IT assets and cyber threats within a customer’s environment, our solutions can provide our customers with specific, actionable insights for their security and IT operations. We designed the Rapid7 Insight Platform to allow customers to collect their data once and leverage that same data across multiple solutions, providing shared visibility across teams, improved and automated workflows, and reducing time to value for additional solutions. The design and development of our Insight Platform includes the following key features and benefits: 
Holistic Dataset for Managing IT Operations and Cyber Security. Our Insight Platform collects information from across an organization's environment into a unified dataset. We collect data from the following sources: cyber security assets such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, or IDS, intrusion prevention systems, or IPS, and security information and event management, or SIEM; user directories; endpoints such as computers, mobile and connected devices and servers; applications; cloud activity; IT environment permissions, policies and controls; and third parties, such as cloud-based email and business productivity solution providers. Our platform also applies context to events, including user and asset level details. We overlay this against our continuously expanding set of known vulnerabilities, exploits and threat intelligence, providing SecOps professionals a holistic view of their IT environment.
Agentless and Agent-Based Architecture.  We developed our platform with flexible processing technologies that employ both agentless data collection and our own internally-developed endpoint agent technology, which enables rapid and seamless integration of our products into our customers’ IT environments and provides security and IT professionals with instant visibility into their dynamic and rapidly-expanding IT ecosystem. This allows for easier deployment of our Insight agent, potentially increasing the time to value for not just one of our products, but many of them.
Fast Search. Our search technology enables IT and security professionals to search across their entire IT environment including endpoints and, unlike other machine search solutions, provides live access without having to wait for lengthy indexing processes. These capabilities, along with real time and easily accessible search across raw logs and endpoints for known patterns with intuitive search queries, can enable IT security professionals to access their data for operational purposes.
User Behavior Analytics.  Our Insight Platform creates a behavior profile for each user in a customer’s IT environment and correlates every event with a user, asset or application. User behavior profiles can then be automatically analyzed to identify suspicious user behavior and compromised user credentials. Our ability to provide rapid context around users and assets involved in an incident can significantly reduce investigation time, enabling organizations to more quickly respond to, contain and mitigate breaches.
Robust Platform and Customer Data Security. Our Insight Platform was designed to provide a secure environment for both our data and that of our customers. We deploy a variety of technologies and industry-leading practices such as physical and logical customer data segregation, network segmentation, audited and monitored access level controls, data anonymization, encryption and separated development-staging-production environments to help ensure that the data collected from a customer’s environment remains proprietary and secure. We have achieved Service Organization Control (SOC) II Type 2 certification for the foundation of our platform and are continuing to expand the specific compliance regimes for which we are audited.
Enterprise-Grade Scalability. Our Insight Platform provides a high level of horizontal scalability. We leverage on-premise deployment models and Amazon Web Services, or AWS, to achieve a high degree of redundancy, fault tolerance and cost-effective operations. We are currently deployed in three AWS geographic regions, with plans to add additional geographies. Our automated deployment technologies enable us to add new AWS instances or additional services rapidly. Our infrastructure architecture is designed to process large amounts of data and easily incorporate new data sources, including on premise, cloud and mobile. Our platform is designed to support customers with large numbers of users or with geographically dispersed environments, and we have scaled to meet the needs of customers with over 2.5 million active assets and 700,000 active users as of December 31, 2017.
Extensible Modern Platform. Our technology platform provides a rich set of application programming interfaces, or APIs, and services that enable customers, partners and developers to import and export data and utilize our analytics capabilities. This allows us to easily integrate with other security tools in the customer’s environment and also enables customers to build bespoke applications and analysis on top of the data that we gather.
3

Our Products and Services
Our products have been designed to deliver our sophisticated analytics with an intuitive user interface, focused on ease-of-installation, ease-of-use and fast time-to-value for our customers. Our Insight Platform can easily become part of our customers’ operational fabric without requiring internal expertise in systems integration, data science or data scripting. 
Vulnerability Management Solutions: Solutions from our Vulnerability Management group help organizations systematically and dynamically manage cyber vulnerabilities, allowing them to understand their exposures and prevent attacks by providing insights into their IT and application environments. 
Vulnerability Management
Our Vulnerability Management offerings collect data by scanning our customers' IT environment, and customers can also collect endpoint information by installing our Insight agents. This data is used for analyzing vulnerabilities against our database, detecting security misconfigurations and determining the effectiveness of controls across an IT environment. The key features of our Vulnerability Management offerings include: automatic vulnerability updates; integrated threat feeds incorporating public and proprietary threat intelligence; exception management, which allows organizations to track when risk is knowingly introduced into the IT environment; executive remediation and security testing reporting; interactive charting; scan scheduling and alerting; RealContext classification, which allows organizations to apply business context to threats including by identifying where sensitive data is stored; container, virtual, cloud, unified vulnerability, perimeter and discovery scanning; and policy compliance and management.
InsightVM InsightVM is an Insight Platform based solution that enables customers to assess and remediate their overall exposure to cyber risk across their increasingly complex IT environments. InsightVM provides prioritized guidance based on customized threat models; dynamic live dashboards that are easily customizable and queried; lightweight cloud agents for continuous monitoring; in-product integration with ServiceNow and Jira ticketing systems; and remediation workflow for assigning and tracking remediation progress within the product. InsightVM is offered through a cloud-based subscription or as a managed service. The managed service is known as Managed Vulnerability Management, which provides our resource-constrained customers with a fully outsourced option for leveraging our innovation, expertise and technology.
Nexpose Nexpose is the on-premise version of our Vulnerability Management solution that enables customers to assess and remediate their overall exposure to cyber risk across their increasingly complex IT environments. Nexpose is offered through term and perpetual software licenses. Nexpose perpetual customers also pay fees for annual content subscriptions and maintenance and support subscriptions.
Application Security Testing 
Application Security Testing solutions provide comprehensive dynamic application security testing that continuously analyzes web applications for security vulnerabilities and enhances organizations’ ability to effectively reduce IT security risk. The key features include: a universal translator to enable IT security professionals to analyze complex applications; customized attack simulation capabilities that allow IT security professionals to automatically test complex business workflows such as shopping carts; scanning automation; attack replay, which allows IT security professionals to replay vulnerabilities in real time in order to verify that vulnerabilities are exploitable and that successful remediation has occurred; continuous site monitoring, which detects changes in application ecosystems and triggers a re-scan according to configurable settings; and integration with ticketing systems.
InsightAppSec InsightAppSec is an Insight Platform based solution that provides comprehensive dynamic application security testing that continuously analyzes web applications for security vulnerabilities. In addition to the above features, InsightAppSec provides live vulnerability reports and the ability to evaluate multiple versions of an individual application in one “app portfolio”. InsightAppSec is offered on a cloud-based subscription basis or as a managed service. The managed service is known as Managed Application Security and provides a fully outsourced option for application scanning and security testing for both resource-constrained organizations and those seeking to supplement their own capabilities.
AppSpider AppSpider is the on-premise version of our Application Security Testing solution that provides comprehensive dynamic application security testing that continuously analyzes web applications for security vulnerabilities. In addition to the above features, AppSpider enables integration with protection technologies to automatically generate web application firewalls, or WAFs, custom rules that help to protect vulnerable applications while the vulnerabilities are being remediated. AppSpider supports most leading WAFs, including F5, Sourcefire and Imperva. AppSpider is offered through term and perpetual software licenses. AppSpider perpetual customers also pay fees for annual maintenance and support.
4

Penetration Testing
Metasploit Metasploit is an industry-leading penetration testing software solution, developed on an open source framework. Metasploit can be used to safely simulate attacks on an organization’s network in order to uncover vulnerabilities before they are exploited by cyber attackers and assess the effectiveness of an organization’s existing defenses, security controls and mitigation efforts. The key features of Metasploit include: wizards for standard baseline audits; task chains for automated custom workflows; modules for discrete tasks, such as network segmentation testing; dynamic payloads, designed to evade leading antivirus solutions; closed-loop vulnerability validation to prioritize remediation; phishing awareness management and spear phishing; web-based interface; integrations via remote APIs; and a hardware bridge for testing Internet of Things, or IoT, and hardware devices. Metasploit can integrate with Nexpose to enable IT security professionals to prioritize remediation efforts and understand the impact of an attack before it happens. We also offer a free community version of Metasploit for small companies and students, as well as the open source framework, which is geared toward developers and security researchers. Metasploit is offered through term and perpetual software licenses, and our perpetual customers pay fees for annual content subscriptions and maintenance and support.
Incident Detection and Response Solutions
Our Incident Detection and Response solutions are designed to provide a cost-effective response to the need for Security Information and Event Management (SIEM). Our solutions combine a deep understanding of the attacker mindset with our user behavior analytics (UBA) and our Insight Platform. With our Metasploit community, research and incident response services, we are continually studying and identifying the latest attacker methods. We have learned and continue to learn how attackers behave and how to detect them before they can inflict damage. We have found ways to increase accuracy, speed the process, and achieve greater confidence, even as attacker methods change. 
InsightIDR InsightIDR is an Insight Platform based solution which unifies SIEM, UBA, and endpoint detection to detect stealthy attacks across today’s complex networks. It analyzes the billions of events that occur daily in organizations to reduce them down to the important notable behaviors and deliver only high-fidelity and prioritized alerts. In addition to identifying stealthy attacks often missed by other solutions, InsightIDR focuses the security team on issues that warrant investigation and reduces the time to investigate with its user correlation, powerful search and endpoint interrogation capabilities. InsightIDR is offered as a cloud-based subscription. 
Managed Detection and Response Managed Detection and Response is a fully outsourced service that combines our team of expert analysts with our leading incident detection and user behavior analytics technology, InsightIDR. When attacks are found, customers are promptly informed of all known details and our team moves to incident response, providing security teams with detailed, easy-to-follow remediation steps tailored to the environment.
IT Analytics and Automation Solutions
Logentries Logentries provides a powerful cloud-based solution for collecting, searching, visualizing and analyzing log data. Built-in tagging, alerting and reporting make it easy for customers to maintain a proactive view of their environment and identify anomalous events. Logentries’ scalable, cost-effective architecture enables organizations to store and search structured, semi-structured and unstructured data in real time, enabling DevOps and IT professionals to centralize, search and monitor their log data in order to investigate anomalies, troubleshoot issues and conduct root cause analysis. This offering can be used for application debugging and performance monitoring, infrastructure monitoring and troubleshooting, and secure log aggregation in support of compliance requirements. Logentries is offered as a cloud-based subscription.
InsightOps InsightOps is the evolution of Logentries, with an updated user interface consistent with other solutions on the Rapid7 Insight Platform. InsightOps is designed to centralize machine data from across organizations’ IT environments for comprehensive operational awareness and control. By pairing endpoint visibility with log analytics, InsightOps empowers IT professionals to quickly identify issues and perform root cause analysis down to the individual endpoint. With the use of InsightOps, we believe that IT professionals have the ability to easily search and ask questions of their data, visualize trends, and produce reports that deliver key insights regarding their IT environments faster, and we believe, resulting in improved uptime and business productivity. InsightOps is offered as a cloud-based subscription.
Komand  Our Komand solution is designed to automatically identify risks, respond to incidents, and address issues faster and with less human intervention. Komand combines a library of “plugins” to a variety of security and IT applications with a graphical interface to create workflows. Customers can also access a public library of plug-ins and workflows. These workflows can automate manual and tedious tasks and allow security and IT teams to save time and improve efficiency. Komand is offered through term software licenses.
5

Sales, Marketing and Community
We sell our solutions through direct inside and field sales team and indirect channel partner relationships.
 Sales Our global sales teams focus on both new customer acquisition as well as up-selling and cross-selling additional offerings to our existing customers. Our sales teams are organized by geography, consisting of the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific, or APAC, as well as by target organization size. Our inside sales team primarily focuses on mid-market enterprises, while Fortune 500 enterprises are generally handled by our globally distributed direct field sales teams. Our highly technical sales engineers help define customer use cases, manage solution evaluations and train channel partners.
We maintain a global channel partner network that complements our sales organization. Our channel partner network expands our geographic sales reach by providing language support and broader distribution capabilities, particularly in EMEA, APAC and Latin America. Our channel partners also provide us with additional leverage by assisting in closing customer transactions as part of larger security purchases, sourcing new prospects and securing maintenance renewals. Our sales force works directly with, and is involved in sales to, substantially all of the end customers of our channel partners, and we sometimes engage a channel partner solely to assist with finalizing a purchase. As of December 31, 2017, we had over 700 channel partners.
 Marketing We focus our marketing efforts on increasing the strength of the Rapid7 brand, communicating product advantages and business benefits, generating leads for our sales force and channel partners and driving product adoption. We deliver targeted content to demonstrate our thought leadership in security and use digital advertising methods to drive downloads of our free community and trial software, which deliver opportunities to our sales organization. We work with our own researchers, as well as the broader IT and security community, to share important information about vulnerabilities and threats. We share that research through our active online community, social media and traditional public relations. In addition, we host regional and national events to engage both customers and prospects, deliver product training and foster community collaboration.
 Community Our online community provides us with a rapidly growing network of active users and influencers who promote the usage of our software, identify cyber risks and provide technical support to each other. Our community includes paid customers of our software, users of free “community” trial editions of our software, security researchers, and users and contributors to our open source Metasploit Framework, which is used to simulate attacks and test an organization’s defenses against real-world threats.
Our Metasploit product has an active community of contributors and users and the penetration testing tool was downloaded over 165,000 times in 2017. This online security community provides us with a robust and growing network of active users and influencers who promote the usage of our software. Security researchers contribute modules to the Metasploit Framework that serve as a resource about real-world attacker techniques. The community also provides us with near real-time visibility into new cyber attacks as they occur and a deep understanding of attacker behaviors.
Sales and marketing expense totaled $111.6 million, $90.5 million and $67.4 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Support and Services
We sell software maintenance and support that provides our customers with the latest version of our platform and applications. We also offer security content subscriptions with our Nexpose and Metasploit products which give our customers real-time updates on the latest vulnerabilities and exploits. We also provide deployment support and training.
Our Security Advisory Services help customers transform their organizations’ security programs to be relevant, actionable and sustainable through a data and analytics-driven cyber security program. Our offerings include Cyber Security Maturity Assessment, Incident Response Program Development, Penetration Testing, Security Program Development, Virtual CISO, IoT Security Services and Threat Modeling. Customers can take control of their organizations’ security with help from our seasoned security professionals who have deep experience building and managing security programs.
Our Security Advisory Services enhance our ability to serve as a trusted advisor in assisting organizations to think proactively about IT security and implement strategic, analytics-driven security strategies. We believe that our role as trusted advisor helps drive customer success and loyalty and further usage of our products.
When a breach occurs, our Incident Response Services give our customers access to our industry-leading security experts and experience, enabling customers to accelerate incident investigation, forensics, and containment. Our incident response professionals collaborate with each organization’s IT security professionals on all stages of incident response from analysis through containment, remediation and cleanup.
6

Research and Development
We invest substantial resources in research and development to enhance our core technology platform and products, develop new end market-specific solutions and applications, and conduct product and quality assurance testing. Our technical and engineering team monitors and tests our products on a regular basis, and we maintain a regular release process to refine, update, and enhance our existing products. We also have a team of experienced security researchers who work to keep us abreast of the latest developments in the cyber security landscape. Our research and development teams are located in our offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts; Austin, Texas; Los Angeles, California; Toronto, Canada; Dublin, Ireland and Belfast, Northern Ireland providing us with a broad, worldwide reach to engineering talent. Research and development expense totaled $50.9 million, $48.0 million and $38.7 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Our Customers
Our customer base has grown from approximately 2,733 customers at the end of 2013 to more than 7,000 customers as of December 31, 2017, in 127 countries, including 52% of the organizations in the Fortune 100. We define a customer as any entity that has (1) an active Rapid7 contract or a contract that expired within 90 days or less of the applicable measurement date; and for Logentries products, those customers with a contract value equal to or greater than $2,400 per year, or (2) purchased Rapid7 professional services within the 12 months preceding the applicable measurement date. We provide products and services to customers of varying sizes, including enterprises, non-profit organizations, educational institutions and government agencies. Fifty-six percent of our revenue in 2017 was generated by large enterprises, which we define as organizations that have either annual revenue greater than $1.0 billion or more than 2,500 employees, and the balance was generated by middle-market organizations. Our customers span a wide variety of industries including technology, energy, financial services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, media and entertainment, retail, education, real estate, transportation, government and professional services, with customers in the finance industry representing our largest industry in 2017 at 14% of our revenue. Our revenue is not concentrated with any individual customer or group of customers, and no customer represented more than 2% of our revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015.
Our Competition
The markets we operate in are highly competitive, fragmented and subject to technology change and innovation. They include the vulnerability management and assessment, SIEM, security services and other sectors in cyber security, compliance and IT operations management. Our primary competitors include: vulnerability management vendors including Qualys and Tenable Network Security; diversified security software and services vendors, including IBM; legacy compliance and monitoring solutions such as SIEM, provided by vendors including Splunk, Micro Focus (through its acquisition of ArcSight), LogRhythm, and Alienvault; security services specialists, including Mandiant (a subsidiary of FireEye); and providers of point solutions that compete with some of the features present in our solutions.
We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including:

• | product functionality;


• | breadth of offerings;


• | performance;


• | brand name, reputation and customer satisfaction;


• | ease of implementation, use and maintenance;


• | total cost of ownership; and


• | scalability, reliability and security.

Certain of our competitors have greater sales, marketing and financial resources, more extensive geographic presence or greater brand awareness than we do. We may face future competition in our markets from other large, established companies, as well as from emerging companies. In addition, we expect that there is likely to be continued consolidation in our industry that could lead to increased price competition and other forms of competition.
Intellectual Property
Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. To safeguard these rights, we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, employee and 
7

third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements and other contractual protections to protect our intellectual property in the United States and other jurisdictions.
We have numerous issued patents and a number of registered and unregistered trademarks. We believe that the duration of our issued patents is sufficient when considering the expected lives of our products. We file patent applications to protect our intellectual property and have a number of patent applications pending in the United States. We require our employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. Although we rely on intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, creation of new modules, features and functionality, and frequent enhancements to our solutions are more essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position.
We also license software from third parties for integration into our offerings, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that such third parties will maintain such software or continue to make it available.
Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products with the same functionality as our solution. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult.
We expect that software and other solutions in our industry may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we had 1,079 full-time employees, including 236 in product delivery and support, 437 in sales and marketing, 266 in research and development and 140 in general and administrative. As of December 31, 2017, we had 805 full-time employees in the United States and 274 full-time employees internationally. None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are good and we have not experienced any work stoppages.
Segments
We view our operations and manage our business as one operating segment. See our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of revenues, operating loss, net loss and total assets.
Corporate Information
We were initially incorporated in July 2000 in Delaware. Rapid7 LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, was formed in January 2004. In August 2004, pursuant to an exchange agreement among Rapid7 LLC and the stockholders of Rapid7, Inc., the stockholders exchanged their shares in Rapid7, Inc. for equity interests in Rapid7 LLC, after which Rapid7, Inc. was dissolved. In August 2008, Rapid7 LLC was merged with and into Rapid7 LLC, a newly-formed Delaware limited liability company. Rapid7, Inc. was reincorporated in Delaware in October 2011. In a series of transactions in November 2011, equity holders of Rapid7 LLC exchanged their equity interests in Rapid7 LLC for capital stock in Rapid7, Inc. and Rapid7 LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rapid7, Inc.
Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Summer Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Our telephone number is +1 617-247-1717. Our website address is www.rapid7.com.
“Rapid7,” the Rapid7 logo, and other trademarks or service marks of Rapid7, Inc. appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Rapid7, Inc. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of others, which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may appear without the ® or TM symbols. The information contained on our website or information that may be accessed through links on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Geographic Information
For a description of our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic location, see Note 14 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
8

Available Information
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge on or through our website at investors.rapid7.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public may read and copy any files with the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. 
9

