Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

 Item 1.  Business.
 Overview
 Rockwell Medical, Inc. and Subsidiaries, (collectively, “we”, “our”, “us” or the “Company”) is a fully-integrated pharmaceutical company targeting end-stage renal disease (“ESRD”) and chronic kidney disease with innovative products and services for the treatment of iron deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism and hemodialysis (also referred to as “dialysis”).  We were incorporated in the state of Michigan in 1996.

We are currently marketing and developing unique, proprietary renal drug therapies. These novel renal drug therapies support disease management initiatives to improve the quality of life and care of dialysis patients and are designed to deliver safe and effective therapy, while decreasing drug administration costs and improving patient convenience and outcome. We have also obtained licenses for certain dialysis related drugs which we are developing and planning to market globally.
 We are also an established manufacturer and leader in delivering high-quality hemodialysis concentrates/dialysates to dialysis providers and distributors in the United States and abroad. We manufacture, sell and distribute hemodialysis concentrates and other medical products and supplies used in the treatment of patients with ESRD.  In 2017, we supplied approximately 25% of the United States domestic market with dialysis concentrates, and the majority of our sales were in the United States.  We also supply dialysis concentrates to distributors serving a number of foreign countries, primarily in the Americas and the Pacific Rim.  
 We are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Federal Drug and Cosmetics Act, as well as by other federal, state and local agencies. We hold several FDA product approvals including both drugs and medical devices.
     Our Market Opportunity – Hemodialysis
 Hemodialysis is the primary treatment modality employed in the United States with over 90% of all dialysis patients receiving hemodialysis. The Company does not currently compete in the peritoneal or home dialysis segments. Hemodialysis treatments are primarily performed in freestanding clinics, as well as in some hospitals. The majority of dialysis services are performed by national and regional for profit dialysis chains. Based on data published by the United States Renal Data Systems (“USRDS”) we estimate that there are approximately 7,000 Medicare-certified treatment clinics in the United States. The two largest national for-profit dialysis chains service approximately 70% of the domestic hemodialysis market. According to the most recent statistics published by USRDS, there were approximately 479,000 dialysis patients in the United States as of the end of 2015.
 Based on a global market study published by a major dialysis products manufacturer, the global ESRD population receiving some form of treatment was estimated to be over 3.2 million patients at the end of 2017 with the overall global patient population growing approximately 7-8% annually. According to the National Kidney Foundation, 10% of the worldwide population is affected by chronic kidney disease and millions die each year because they do not have access to affordable treatments. We have observed that the ESRD patient population in the United States has grown steadily over the past several decades and, coupled with data provided in that report, we expect the United States dialysis population to grow approximately 3-4% annually over the next several years. The Asia-Pacific market is projected to experience rapid growth in both the incidence of kidney disease and by total treatment in the ESRD population over the decade ahead. One common side-effect of dialysis treatments is iron deficiency anemia for chronic patients.  
 The great majority of hemodialysis patients receive dialysis treatment three times per week, or approximately 156 times per year. Most patients have their dialysis treatment performed at a free-standing clinic for permanent loss of kidney function; these are called “chronic” patients. Some have their treatment performed at hospitals for temporary loss of kidney function; these are called “acute” patients. A small percent of chronic patients receive their treatment at home; these are called “home” patients. In each setting, a dialysis machine dilutes concentrated solution, such as Rockwell’s concentrate products, with purified water. The resulting solution is called dialysate. Dialysate is pumped through an artificial kidney or filter (called a dialyzer) while the patient’s blood is pumped through a semi-permeable membrane 

 
  3

inside the dialyzer in the opposite direction the dialysate is flowing. The dialysate infuses calcium, magnesium and potassium into the patient’s blood while removing fluid and waste. Dialysate generally contains dextrose, sodium chloride, calcium, potassium, magnesium, sodium bicarbonate and citric acid or acetic acid. The patient’s physician chooses the proper concentrations required for each patient based on each particular patient’s needs.
 In addition to using concentrate products every treatment, a dialysis provider also uses other products such as blood tubing, fistula needles, dialyzers, drugs, specialized component kits, dressings, cleaning agents, filtration salts and other supplies, many of which we sell.
     Our Solution
 We are primarily focused on developing unique, proprietary renal drug therapies that we can commercialize or out-license, while also expanding our dialysis products business. These novel renal drug therapies support disease management initiatives to improve the quality of life and care of dialysis patients and are designed to deliver safe and effective therapy, while decreasing drug administration costs and improving patient convenience and outcome.
 The Only FDA-Approved Therapy to Replace Iron and Maintain Hemoglobin.  As of now, Triferic is the only FDA-approved therapy indicated to replace iron and maintain hemoglobin in adult hemodialysis patients. We believe Triferic has the potential to capture significant market share due to its improved clinical and cost-saving benefits.  Triferic is an innovative iron therapy that replaces the ongoing iron loss that occurs to patients during every hemodialysis treatment, via dialysate.  If Triferic receives separate reimbursement from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) we anticipate dialysis providers will have greater incentive to adopt this new, innovative therapy and provide their patients wide-spread access to it.  Effective January 1, 2016, Triferic received a CMS reimbursement code, commonly referred to as a J-Code.
 Separate Reimbursement.  While we cannot predict the outcome or timing of the CMS review, we anticipate that Triferic will receive separate reimbursement as a result of our extensive efforts in working with policy makers, Congress and stakeholders within the dialysis industry. We have had in-depth discussions with senior officials within the current administration, key members of Congress, patient advocacy groups and other industry stakeholders regarding the merits of Triferic and why this innovative therapy should receive separate reimbursement.  Our efforts have received strong support.  We have submitted information to CMS that highlights the improved clinical benefits that Triferic provides to patients, as well as the significant cost savings Triferic delivers to both Medicare and dialysis providers.
     Develop Additional Clinical Indications and Product Presentations of Triferic. We are continuing development work on other clinical indications related to iron deficiency that address unmet patient needs and we are evaluating opportunities to in-license other products that will complement our product portfolio.  We are also developing other presentations of Triferic.
 International Opportunities.  Our global strategy is to license Triferic to key partners to commercialize it internationally. We are actively pursuing international licensing opportunities in a number of countries and regions. 
 Enter into Generic Market.  We are also working to begin marketing Calcitriol, a generic injectable vitamin-D, which is manufactured through contract manufacturing organizations (“CMOs”). In 2017, we engaged a new CMO in order to improve the manufacturing process of Calcitriol to ensure that Calcitriol is manufactured consistently and within specifications.  We are awaiting FDA approval of a Prior Approval Supplement (“PAS”) in order to market and commercialize Calcitriol. We received written notice from the FDA in October 2017 that the FDA needed additional time to review the data submitted by us.  The notice contained no indication by the FDA of any deficiency with the data submitted.  While we cannot predict the timing of the FDA’s review of such data, we anticipate the FDA’s review of such data to be completed during the second quarter of 2018.  Following FDA approval, we plan to accelerate our commercial production volumes and to begin selling Calcitriol to hemodialysis providers in the United States.
            
 
  4


 Our Growth Strategies
 Domestic Commercialization of Triferic.  We are actively marketing Triferic in the United States hemodialysis market through our efforts to educate and to work together with clinics to evaluate their implementation of Triferic under our drug sample program.  Feedback from clinics using Triferic in connection with our drug sample program has been positive and consistent with our clinical study results, which demonstrated stable maintenance of hemoglobin concentration and significant reduction in erythropoiesis stimulating agent (“ESA”) and intravenous (IV) iron use.  Until Triferic receives separate reimbursement from CMS, Triferic will be available through our drug sample program.  The United States hemodialysis market is currently the largest market in the world for dialysis products. There are an estimated 470,000 dialysis patients in the United States or approximately 75 million treatments annually.  
 Domestic Commercialization of Calcitriol.  Our generic injectable vitamin-D drug, Calcitriol, is indicated for treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients. Calcitriol (active vitamin D) injection is indicated in the management of hypocalcemia in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis.  Calcitriol (active vitamin D) injection is indicated in the management of hypocalcemia in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis. Based on our analysis of information provided by industry sources, we estimate that there are currently over 52,000,000 vitamin D treatments per year in the ESRD market in the United States. We are awaiting FDA approval of a Prior Approval Supplement (“PAS”) in order to market and commercialize Calcitriol. We received written notice from the FDA in October 2017 that the FDA needed additional time to review the data submitted by us.  The notice contained no indication by the FDA of any deficiency with the data submitted.  While we cannot predict the timing of the FDA’s review of such data, we anticipate the FDA’s review of such data to be completed during the second quarter of 2018.  Following FDA approval, we plan to ramp up commercial production volumes and to begin marketing and selling Calcitriol to hemodialysis providers in the United States.
 International Commercialization of Triferic and Calcitriol.  We are working to commercialize both Triferic and Calcitriol globally.  In 2016, we licensed the commercialization rights for Triferic for the Chinese market with a prominent Chinese pharmaceutical company.  China is expected to become the largest ESRD market in the world over the next several years. Commercial sales activity in these markets will commence following regulatory or registration approval. We retain manufacturing responsibilities for both Triferic and Calcitriol. We have also executed a distribution agreement to market Triferic in Canada, where we anticipate commercial availability in 2019 after regulatory approval. We recently licensed Triferic to distributors in Chile and Peru.  We are actively engaged in licensing negotiations for Triferic in a number of other regions and countries. We intend to leverage the development, regulatory and commercial presence and expertise of potential business partners to accelerate sales of our products throughout the world.
 Obtain Separate Reimbursement for Triferic.  We have been engaged in extensive efforts to obtain approval from CMS for separate reimbursement of Triferic.  We have worked with policy makers, Congress and stakeholders within the dialysis industry.  We have had in-depth discussions with senior officials within the current administration, key members of Congress, patient advocacy groups and other industry stakeholders regarding the merits of Triferic and why this innovative therapy should receive separate reimbursement.  Our efforts have received strong support.  We have submitted information to CMS that highlights the improved clinical benefits that Triferic provides to patients, as well as the significant cost savings Triferic delivers to both Medicare and dialysis providers. Notwithstanding our efforts, arguments and expectations, we cannot predict the outcome, or the timing of the CMS review. 
 Additional Potential Indications for Triferic.  We are currently undertaking development of other clinical indications for Triferic. These clinical applications include peritoneal dialysis (“PD”), total parenteral nutrition (“TPN”) and possibly treating cancer patients. We are also developing other methods for delivering and packaging Triferic, including intravenous delivery. Our drug product pipeline is summarized below by stage of development. 
 Expanding Out-Licensing.  We have made significant progress with our international business development efforts for Triferic, including securing a licensing agreement with Wanbang Biopharmaceutical in 2016 for the rights to commercialize Triferic and Calcitriol for ESRD patients in the People’s Republic of China. We are working with our partner to commence a clinical trial in China anticipated to commence in 2018.  Under the terms of the Wanbang Agreement, we received an upfront payment of $4 million, which we are recognizing over the term of the agreement. Rockwell may also receive milestone payments of up to an additional $35 million over the life of the agreement in regulatory and revenue milestone payments plus ongoing earnings on product sales, and Wanbang is responsible for the cost of the clinical trial and regulatory approval in China. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we licensed Triferic to distributors in Chile and Peru.  Our distributors are responsible for obtaining regulatory approvals in those markets.  We are actively pursuing licensing transactions in a number of countries and regions. We believe that our intravenous form of Triferic will be the preferred method of delivery in a number of countries and will support our out-licensing efforts for those territories.

 
  5


     Current Drug Pipeline

We are currently developing Triferic for other clinical indications and presentations.  We are developing an intravenous injection of Triferic primarily for use by hemodialysis patients in foreign markets and for use in other iron deficiency anemia indications, as well as other product presentations.  Other clinical applications include peritoneal dialysis (“PD”) and total parenteral nutrition (“TPN”).  
     A new presentation and manufacturing process has been completed for infusing Triferic intravenously.  A clinical equivalence study of Triferic IV infusion presentation has been completed.  We expect to submit documentation for FDA approval of the Triferic IV presentation in 2018.
     For our PD program, we completed a pharmacokinetic (“PK”) study which showed iron transfer from peritoneal dialysate to blood.  Additional Phase I/II safety and PK studies are required to establish dosing and are planned to commence in the third quarter of 2018.
     We have met with experts in the TPN field to evaluate the TPN market.  We are currently in the process of evaluating the TPN market.  If the market opportunity appears favorable, clinical studies will commence following submission and approval of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) application with the FDA.
         Our Drug Products
 Triferic (Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate)
 The great majority of hemodialysis patients receive dialysis treatment three times per week, or approximately 156 times per year, and dialysis patients suffer from iron deficiency and anemia as a result of iron loss during their constant dialysis treatments.  Triferic was designed specifically to treat this constant iron loss, and Triferic is the only FDA approved drug indicated to replace iron and maintain hemoglobin in hemodialysis patients.  We believe Triferic will become the standard of care in anemia treatment for dialysis patients, addressing an important unmet need in the treatment of iron deficiency and anemia in ESRD patients.
    
Triferic is a novel iron therapy that replaces the small amount of iron patients lose during their hemodialysis treatment. It is innovative and convenient because it is delivered via dialysate  Triferic’s unique mode-of-action is what distinguishes it from other drug treatments because Triferic donates iron to transferrin, immediately, and completely, as soon as it enters the blood, where it then is transported to the bone marrow to make hemoglobin.  Triferic delivers sufficient iron to the bone marrow and maintains hemoglobin without increasing iron stores (ferritin).
     Intravenous (IV) iron was approved for use as a repletion therapy in the early 1990’s, with a clinical indication to treat iron deficiency anemia – defined as a ferritin level < 200 ng/mL.  At that time, the average ferritin level in dialysis patients in the U.S. was between 200 – 300 ng/mL.  Ferritin is a marker of stored iron and inflammation in the body.  IV iron has been the only viable therapy used during the last 30 years to attempt to treat dialysis patients for anemia .  However, IV iron is not able to replace the continual iron loss that occurs at every dialysis treatment due to its mode-of-action.  IV iron products are designed to metabolize in the patient’s liver and then bind to transferrin. Due to the constant inflammation present in hemodialysis patients, a protein called hepcidin mobilizes and blocks the IV iron from leaving the liver, trapping most of it there. As a result, the average ferritin levels in dialysis patients have soared over the last 30 years, to approximately 750 ng/mL, according to US-DOPPS Practice Monitor published August 2017.
     Triferic is distinctly different from IV iron and is specifically FDA approved to treat the small amount of iron patients lose during every hemodialysis treatment. Triferic is different in molecular structure, mode-of-action (bypassing liver storage) and FDA approved clinical indication (to replace iron and maintain hemoglobin).  Triferic is an iron maintenance therapy approved to be given to patients every treatment whereas IV iron is a repletion or “rescue” therapy   that should be given only when a patient experiences significant blood loss and has a ferritin level < 200 ng/mL.  Triferic delivers iron and maintains hemoglobin without increasing iron stores (ferritin) and addresses an unmet need.   
     Triferic has demonstrated an excellent safety profile. We received FDA approval to market Triferic in liquid form in 2015 and in powder form in 2016.   
 
  6


 Calcitriol (Active Vitamin D) Injection
     Calcitriol is a generic active vitamin D and is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients. The majority of ESRD patients receive vitamin D every treatment using primarily one of two branded drugs or in some cases oral drugs.  Clinical data shows Calcitriol to be clinically equivalent in safety and efficacy to the two branded drugs and Calcitriol is the most potent and physiological vitamin D therapy.  We believe the lower cost of Calcitriol will provide incentive to dialysis providers to purchase it over current vitamin D options.        Dialysis Concentrate Products 
     We manufacture, sell, deliver and distribute hemodialysis concentrates, along with a full line of ancillary products abroad. As one of the two major suppliers in the United States, our dialysis concentrate products, as more fully described below,  are used to maintain human life by removing toxins and replacing critical nutrients in the dialysis patient’s bloodstream.  We use Baxter Healthcare Corporation (“Baxter”) as our exclusive marketer and distributor in the United States and in select foreign markets pursuant to an Exclusive Distribution Agreement, as amended (the “Distribution Agreement”).  In June 2017, we settled arbitration proceedings with Baxter related to the Distribution Agreement and entered into the First Amendment to Exclusive Distribution Agreement with Baxter. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.”
     Dialysate concentrates accounted for over 95% of our 2017 revenue with ancillary products accounting for most of the remainder.  All of our products are manufactured according to Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation and current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) guidelines.   Our concentrate products are diluted with clean water on-site at the clinic in the dialysis machine, creating dialysate, which works to clean the patient’s blood.
     CitraPure Citric Acid Concentrate
     Our CitraPure Concentrate is citrate-based, and 100% acetate-free, in contrast to the acetate-based products used for many years.  Acetate promotes inflammation and the reduction in inflammation is beneficial to improving patient outcomes. Citrate acts as an anticoagulant and has been shown in clinical studies to reduce the need for heparin during dialysis treatment (CitraPure is not indicated for heparin sparing).  CitraPure is packaged as a liquid and as a dry powder acid concentrate for use with our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer.  CitraPure is packaged as dry acid concentrate in 25 gallon cases and liquid acid concentrate in 55 gallon drums and  four one gallon jugs to a case.     Dri-Sate Dry Acid Concentrate
     Our Dri-Sate Concentrate is our original acetate-based product.  Dri-Sate is packaged as a dry powder acid concentrate for use with our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer.  Dri-Sate is packaged as dry acid concentrate in 25 gallon cases.     Renal Pure Liquid Acid Concentrate 
     Our RenalPure Liquid Concentrate is our original acetate-based product, and is packaged in 55 gallon drums and four one gallon jugs to a case.  
         Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer 
     Our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer is designed for our CitraPure and Dri-Sate Dry Acid products and enables the clinic to mix acid concentrate on-site.  Clinics using Rockwell’s Dry Acid Concentrate products realize numerous advantages, including lower cost per treatment, reduced storage space requirements, reduced number of deliveries and more flexibility in scheduling deliveries, while enabling the Company to reduce distribution and warehousing costs.
        
 
  7


 RenalPure and SteriLyte Bicarbonate Concentrate 
     RenalPure bicarbonate is a dry powder mixed on-site at the clinic and is packaged for bulk and individual treatment and SteriLyte bicarbonate is a liquid packaged in four one gallon jugs to a case and is used mainly in acute care settings. 
     Ancillary Products
     We offer a wide range of ancillary products including blood tubing, fistula needles, specialized custom kits, dressings, cleaning agents, filtration salts and other supplies used by hemodialysis providers.           Distribution Agreement with Baxter
 Pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, Baxter is our exclusive agent for commercializing our hemodialysis concentrate and ancillary products in the United States and various foreign countries for an initial term of 10 years ending October 2, 2024. We retain sales, marketing and distribution rights for our hemodialysis concentrate products for our international customers and in those countries in which we have an established commercial presence. During the term of the Distribution Agreement, Baxter has agreed not to manufacture or sell any competitive concentrate products in the United States hemodialysis market, other than specified products. The Distribution Agreement does not include any of the Company’s drug products. In June 2017, we settled arbitration proceedings with Baxter related to the Distribution Agreement and entered into the First Amendment to Exclusive Distribution Agreement with Baxter (the “Amendment”. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.”  The terms of the Amendment included, among other things, reduced pricing on certain accounts.  While reducing pricing, the Amendment provides incentive to Baxter to pursue new customers and increase future sales.
 Under the Distribution Agreement, Baxter purchases concentrate-related products from us at pre-determined gross margin-based prices per unit adjusted each year during the term and subject to an annual true up. The Distribution Agreement also requires Baxter to meet minimum annual purchase levels, subject to a cure period and certain other relief, in order to maintain its exclusive distribution rights. The minimum purchase levels increase each year over the term of the Distribution Agreement. Purchases in any calendar year that exceed the minimum may be carried forward and applied to future years’ minimum requirements. The Distribution Agreement also contains provisions governing the operating relationship between the parties, our obligations to maintain specified manufacturing capacity and quality levels, remedies, as well as representations, warranties and indemnification obligations of the parties. We continue to manage customer service, transportation and certain other functions for our current customers.   Baxter pays us an amount equal to our related costs plus a slight mark-up for these services.
 Upon the mutual determination of us and Baxter, the Distribution Agreement also provides that Baxter will pay us up to $10 million to build a new manufacturing facility in the Pacific time zone that will serve customers in the Western United States. The fee payable in connection with building the facility will be reduced to the extent that the facility is not operational within 12 months after the start of construction. Except for any leased components, we will own and operate the facility when completed.
 Either party may terminate the Distribution Agreement upon the insolvency or material breach of the other party or in the event of a force majeure. In addition, Baxter may also terminate the Distribution Agreement at any time upon 270 days’ prior written notice to us or if (1) prices increase beyond certain thresholds and notice is provided within 45 days after the true up payment is due for the year in which the price threshold is exceeded, (2) a change of control of the Company occurs and 270 days’ notice is provided, or (3) upon written notice that Baxter has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from selling in the United States any product covered by the Distribution Agreement due to a claim of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation relating to such product. If Baxter terminates the Distribution Agreement under the discretionary termination or the price increase provisions, it would be subject to a limited non-compete obligation in the United States with respect to certain products for a period of two years.
 If a “Refund Trigger Event” occurs, we would be obligated to repay a portion of the $20 million upfront fee and any paid portion of the facility fee. A “Refund Trigger Event” means any of the following: (1) a change of control of the Company involving any of certain specified companies; (2) a termination by Baxter due to the Company’s bankruptcy or breach, or due to price increases that exceed the stated thresholds; (3) a termination by either party due to a force 

 
  8

majeure; (4) settlement or adjudication of any claim, action or litigation relating to a covered product that materially and adversely affects Baxter’s commercialization of the product; and (5) any regulatory action or ruling relating to a covered product that materially and adversely affects Baxter’s commercialization of the product. In addition, if Baxter terminates the Distribution Agreement because Baxter has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from selling in the United States any product covered by the Distribution Agreement due to a claim of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation relating to such product prior to the end of 2019, Baxter would be entitled to a partial refund. In no event would more than one refund be required to be paid.
 The Distribution Agreement may be extended an additional five years by Baxter if Baxter achieves a specified sales target and pays an extension fee of $7.5 million. If the first extension occurs, the Distribution Agreement term may later be extended an additional five years at Baxter’s option at no additional cost.
 Distribution and Delivery Operations
 The majority of our domestic dialysis concentrate products are delivered through our subsidiary, Rockwell Transportation, Inc., which operates a fleet of trucks used to deliver products to our customers.  Rockwell distribution and delivery will continue to operate under the Distribution Agreement on behalf of Baxter for domestic business.   We perform delivery services that are generally not available from common carriers or our competitors, such as stock rotation, non-loading-dock delivery and drum pump-off service.  As a result, we believe we offer a higher level of service than other providers.  Our drug products are generally delivered by third party drug distributors in the United States.     Sales and Marketing
 The top ten dialysis providers treat approximately 400,000 hemodialysis patients in their centers according to an article published by Nephrology News in 2017.  We believe this constitutes approximately 85% of the hemodialysis patients in the United States.  Due to the concentrated nature of our customers, we expect to market our drug products using a team of skilled individuals, led and directed by our Chief Executive Officer who will handle much of the sales effort with our major accounts.   
     We market and advertise through trade publications, journals, product literature, industry trade conferences, and web-based applications.  We target our sales and marketing efforts to senior and operating management of dialysis companies, dialysis service providers, nephrologists, clinic administrators, nurses, medical directors and technical and purchasing personnel.  
     Our dialysis concentrate products are sold to customers in the United States through Baxter in accordance with the Distribution Agreement. Our dialysis concentrate products are sold to international customers through independent sales agents, distributors and direct.
     Competition
 Dialysis Concentrate Solutions and Dialysis Products Market Competition
 In the United States, the principal competitor for our concentrate products is Fresenius Medical Care NA, a vertically integrated manufacturer and marketer of dialysis devices, drugs and supplies and dialysis clinic operator, which has substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than us.  Fresenius operates approximately 1,700 clinics and treats approximately 36% of the dialysis patients in the United States.  Fresenius also manufactures and sells a full range of renal products, including dialysis machines, dialyzers (artificial kidneys), concentrates and other supplies used in hemodialysis.  Fresenius also services clinics owned by others with its products where it commands a market leading position in its key product lines. Fresenius manufactures its concentrate in its own regional manufacturing facilities. Fresenius and Rockwell are the two major dialysis concentrate suppliers in the United States.      Iron Delivery Market Competition 
     We believe Triferic has potential to become the standard of care for iron maintenance therapy for hemodialysis patients due to its unique mode of action, clinical benefits, ability to lower treatment cost for providers, ease of 

 
  9

administration and excellent safety profile.  We are not aware of any other iron delivery products that compete with Triferic and its FDA approved clinical indication. 
     Historically, IV iron has been used to treat iron deficiency anemia, and currently, the drug Venofer® is generally regarded as having dominant market share over other IV iron drug products, such as Sanofi’s Ferrlecit®.  Venofer® is owned by Switzerland-based Galenica.  Galenica also markets Ferinject® which is primarily used to treat anemia in a non-dialysis setting. Fresenius has a sublicense agreement that allows Fresenius to distribute Venofer® to the dialysis market in the United States and Canada.  Other IV iron competitors include Watson‘s generic IV iron drug, Nulecit®.  IV iron is a repletion therapy and not an iron maintenance therapy, and therefore, technically, Triferic and IV iron are not competing products as their molecular structure, mode-of-action and FDA approved clinical indication to treat anemia are different. Both therapies are needed to treat dialysis patients, where Triferic is administered every dialysis treatment and IV iron is administered sparingly when there is excessive blood loss in a patient. Accordingly, as Tiferic gains market share, we expect IV iron use will decline.
     The markets for drug products are highly competitive.  Competition in drug delivery systems is generally based on marketing strength, product performance characteristics (i.e., reliability, safety, patient convenience) and product price. Acceptance by dialysis providers and nephrologists is also critical to the success of a product.  The first product on the market in a particular therapeutic area typically is able to obtain and maintain a significant market share. In a highly competitive marketplace and with evolving technology, additional product introductions or developments by others could render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, pharmaceutical and medical device companies are largely dependent upon health care providers being reimbursed by private insurers and government payers.  Drugs approved by the FDA might not receive reimbursement from private insurers or government payers.  
     Prior to 2011, CMS had paid providers for dialysis treatments under the Medicare program in two parts: the composite rate and separately reimbursed drugs and services.  The composite rate was a payment for the complete dialysis treatment except for physicians’ professional services, separately billed laboratory services and separately billed drugs.  CMS implemented a bundled reimbursement rate in 2011. The bundled rate is a single payment per treatment, thereby eliminating reimbursement for individual drugs and services to providers. Regulations provide that the rate is recalculated each year.  As a result, dialysis drugs are now viewed by providers as an additional cost rather than as a source of revenue.  We believe Triferic, due to its potential for improved therapeutic response and lower cost of administration, is an attractive therapy under this reimbursement landscape. When implementing the bundled rate, CMS conveyed that they would create a formal pathway for new innovative therapies to receive separate reimbursement for a 2-year period (called transitional payment) so that (a) dialysis providers would have incentive to make those therapies available to patients, (b) patients would not be denied access to new therapies and improved clinical outcomes and (c) innovation in the renal market would not be stifled.  We believe Triferic is a new innovative therapy, and we are seeking separate reimbursement for Triferic. 
         Vitamin D Therapy Market Competition
     We intend to market Calcitriol injection against two competitors with branded vitamin D products, against other generic drug competitors and against oral forms of vitamin D. Abbott Laboratories markets Zemplar® and Sanofi-Aventis, through its Genzyme subsidiary, markets Hectorol®. Other companies offer oral forms of vitamin D.  We believe the dialysis reimbursement law that went into effect in January 2011, along with Calcitriol being the lowest dose vitamin D injection available and our relationships with many dialysis providers gives us an advantage to sell Calcitriol against competitors in the market.     Quality Assurance and Control
 Dialysis Concentrate Solutions Business
 We operate under FDA and cGMP guidelines and place significant emphasis on providing quality products and services to our customers. Our quality management plays an essential role in meeting product quality requirements and FDA guidelines. We have implemented quality systems that involve control procedures that result in rigid conformance to specifications. Our quality systems also include assessments of suppliers of raw materials, packaging components and finished goods, and quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products, assess the effectiveness of our quality systems and identify areas for improvement.

 
  10


 Technically trained professionals at our production facilities maintain our quality system. To assure quality and consistency of our concentrates, we conduct specific analytical tests during the manufacturing process for each type of product that we manufacture. Prior to shipment, our quality control laboratory at each facility conducts analytical tests to verify that the chemical properties of the concentrates comply with the specifications required by industry standards. Each product is assigned a lot number for tracking purposes.
 Drug Manufacturing
 We will utilize CMOs to manufacture and package our drug products for sale. These contract manufacturers are FDA registered drug manufacturing establishments. We follow defined procedures to qualify manufacturers of our products and to review and approve all manufactured products to ensure compliance with FDA cGMP regulations. Government Regulation
 The testing, manufacture and sale of our hemodialysis concentrates and the ancillary products we distribute are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the “FD&C Act”), and FDA regulations, the FDA regulates the pre‑clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of medical devices. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant pre‑market clearance or pre‑market approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution.
 We plan to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates, such as Triferic, other Triferic indications and Calcitriol. The development and regulatory approval process for new drugs and additional indications for approved drugs includes preclinical testing and human clinical trials and is lengthy and uncertain. Before marketing any pharmaceutical or therapeutic product in the United States, the product must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the FD&C Act.
 Moreover, the FDA imposes substantial requirements on new product research and the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including testing and clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of these products.
 Medical Device Approval and Regulation
 A medical device may be marketed in the United States only with prior authorization from the FDA, unless it is subject to a specific exemption. Devices classified as Class I devices (general controls) or Class II devices (general and special controls) are eligible to seek “510(k) clearance” from the FDA. Such clearance generally is granted when the submitted information establishes that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” in terms of safety and effectiveness to a legally marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval. A legally marketed device is a “pre‑amendment” device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976 (for which a PMA is not required), a device that has been reclassified from Class III to Class I or II, or a device which has been found substantially equivalent through the 510(k) process. The FDA in recent years has been requiring a more rigorous demonstration of substantial equivalence than in the past, including requiring clinical trial data in some cases. For any devices that are cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a new or major change in the intended use of the device, will require new 510(k) submissions. We have been advised that it usually takes from three to six months from the date of submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and may take substantially longer. Our hemodialysis concentrates, liquid bicarbonate and other ancillary products are categorized as Class II devices.
 A device which sustains or supports life, prevents impairment of human health or presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury is categorized as a Class III device. A Class III device generally must receive approval through a pre‑market approval (“PMA”) application, which requires proving the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA. The process of obtaining PMA approval is expensive and uncertain. We have been advised that it usually takes approximately one year to obtain approval after filing the request, and may take substantially longer.
 If human clinical trials of a device are required, whether for a 510(k) submission or a PMA application, and the device presents a “significant risk,” the sponsor of the trial (usually the manufacturer or the distributor of the device) will 

 
  11

have to file an investigational device exemption (“IDE”) application prior to commencing human clinical trials. The IDE application must be supported by data, typically including the results of animal and laboratory testing. If the IDE application is approved by the FDA and one or more appropriate Institutional Review Boards (“IRBs”), the device may be shipped for the purpose of conducting the investigations without compliance with all of the requirements of the FD&C Act and human clinical trials may begin. The FDA will specify the number of investigational sites and the number of patients that may be included in the investigation. If the device does not present a “significant risk” to the patient, a sponsor may begin the clinical trial after obtaining approval for the study by one or more appropriate IRBs without the need for FDA approval.
 Any devices manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA clearances or approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA and certain state agencies. As a manufacturer of medical devices for marketing in the United States, we are required to adhere to regulations setting forth detailed cGMP requirements, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. We must also comply with medical device reporting regulations which require that we report to the FDA any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Under such a scenario, our products may be subject to voluntary recall by us or required recall by the FDA. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The FD&C Act prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses.
 We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable quality system regulations. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances.
 We have 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market hemodialysis concentrates in both liquid and powder form. In addition, we have received 510(k) clearance for our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer.
 We must comply with the FD&C Act and related laws and regulations, including cGMP, to retain 510(k) clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our 510(k) clearances from the FDA to manufacture and distribute our products. If we fail to maintain our 510(k) clearances, we may be required to cease manufacturing and/or distributing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our FDA clearances are denied or rescinded, sales of our products in the United States would be prohibited during the period we do not have such clearances.
 Drug Approval and Regulation
 The marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States, such as Triferic, requires the approval of the FDA. We received FDA approval to market Triferic in January 2015. The FDA has established regulations, guidelines and safety standards which apply to the pre‑clinical evaluation, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of our new iron maintenance therapy product and other pharmaceutical products. The steps required before a pharmaceutical product can be produced and marketed for human use include: (i) pre‑clinical studies; (ii) submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence in the United States; (iii) adequate and well controlled human clinical trials; (iv) submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application (“NDA”) or, in some cases, an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”); and (v) review and approval of the NDA or ANDA by the FDA. An NDA generally is required for products with new active ingredients, new indications, new routes of administration, new dosage forms or new strengths. An NDA requires that complete clinical studies of a product’s safety and efficacy be submitted to the FDA, the cost of which is substantial. The costs are often less, however, for new delivery systems, which utilize already approved drugs than for drugs with new active ingredients.
 An ANDA is a marketing application filed as part of an abbreviated approval process that is available for generic drug products that have been scientifically determined to be “bioequivalent” to an FDA‑approved drug. This requires that the generic drug product have the same amount of active ingredient(s) absorbed in the same amount of time, use indication, route of administration, dosage form and strength as an existing FDA‑approved product. In addition the generic drug product must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP and meet requirements for batch identity, strength, purity and quality. Under applicable regulations, companies that seek to introduce an ANDA product must also 

 
  12

certify that the product does not infringe on the approved product’s patent or that such patent has expired. If the applicant certifies that its product does not infringe on the approved product’s patent, the patent holder may institute legal action to determine the relative rights of the parties and the application of the patent, and the FDA may not finally approve the ANDA until a court finally determines that the applicable patent is invalid or would not be infringed by the applicant’s product.
 Pre‑clinical studies are conducted to obtain preliminary information on a pharmaceutical product’s efficacy and safety in animal or in vitro models. The results of these studies are submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and are reviewed by the FDA before human clinical trials begin. Human clinical trials may begin 30 days after receipt of the IND by the FDA unless the FDA objects to the commencement of clinical trials.
 Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing the product primarily for safety, metabolism and pharmacologic action in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers at one or more doses. In Phase 2 trials, the safety and efficacy of the product are evaluated in a patient population somewhat larger than the Phase 1 trials with the primary intent of determining the effective dose range. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at a large number of test sites. A clinical plan, or protocol, accompanied by documentation from the institutions participating in the trials, must be received by the FDA prior to commencement of each of the clinical trials. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time.
 The results of product development and pre‑clinical and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as an NDA or an ANDA for approval. If an application is submitted, there can be no assurance that the FDA will review and approve the NDA or an ANDA in a timely manner. The FDA may deny an NDA or an ANDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or it may require additional testing, including pre‑clinical, clinical and or product manufacturing tests. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately deny approval of the product. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug, including changes in indication, manufacturing process, labeling, or a change in a manufacturing facility, an NDA or an ANDA supplement may be required to be submitted to the FDA. Product approvals may be withdrawn after the product reaches the market if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur regarding the safety or efficacy of the product. The FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of products which have been commercialized, and has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of these products based on the results of these post‑marketing programs.
 Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections for compliance with regulations and each domestic drug manufacturing facility must be registered with the FDA. Foreign regulatory authorities may also have similar regulations. We expend significant time, money and effort in the area of quality assurance to fully comply with all applicable requirements. FDA approval to manufacture a drug is site specific. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug becomes inoperable, obtaining the required FDA approval to manufacture such drug at a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Manufacturers and distributors must comply with various post‑market requirements, including adverse event reporting, re‑evaluation of approval decisions and notices of changes in the product or in the process or procedures used to manufacture a product.
 Other Government Regulations
 The federal and state governments in the United States, as well as many foreign governments, from time to time explore ways to reduce medical care costs through health care reform. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict what impact any reform proposal ultimately adopted may have on the pharmaceutical and medical device industry or on our business or operating results. Our activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, and environmental protection and may be subject to other present and possible future local, state, federal and foreign regulations.
 The approval procedures for the marketing of our products in foreign countries vary from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We generally depend on our foreign distributors or marketing partners to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals to market our products in those countries which typically do not require additional testing for products that have received FDA approval.

 
  13


 However, since medical practice and governmental regulations differ across regions, further testing may be needed to support market introduction in some foreign countries. Some foreign regulatory agencies may require additional studies involving patients located in their countries. Even after foreign approvals are obtained, further delays may be encountered before products may be marketed. Issues related to import and export can delay product introduction. Many countries require additional governmental approval for price reimbursement under national health insurance systems.
 Product License Agreements
 We are party to an in‑license agreement for exclusive worldwide rights to certain patents and information related to our Triferic® product. We licensed the rights from a company owned by Dr. Ajay Gupta, who subsequently joined us as our Chief Scientific Officer. The license agreement continues for the duration of the underlying patents in each country plus a period of ten years. Patents were issued in the United States in 2004 and extended through 2016. Other patents are issued or pending in the United States, the European Union and Japan, as well as other foreign jurisdictions. As noted below in “Trademarks and Patents,” the Company has also received a patent on the pharmaceutical grade formulation of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Triferic product which extends until 2029.  The license agreement requires us to obtain and pay the cost of obtaining FDA approval of our Triferic product and patent maintenance expenses in order to realize any benefit from commercialization of the product. In addition, we were obligated to make certain milestone payments during development of the product. As of December 31, 2017, there were no remaining milestones to be completed although we continue to be obligated to pay ongoing royalties upon sales of the Triferic product covered by the licensed rights.        Trademarks and Patents
 We have several trademarks and service marks used on our products and in our advertising and promotion of our products, and we have applied for United States registration of such marks. Most such applications have resulted in registration of such trademarks and service marks.
 We were issued a United States patent on the synthesis and formulation of our pharmaceutical grade formulation of our Triferic product. The United States patent expires on April 17, 2029. Patents have also been granted in Europe, Japan and Canada. We have several other patents and patent applications connected to the Triferic product pending in various countries.
 We also own patents in the United States and Canada for our Dry Acid Concentrate method and apparatus for preparing liquid dialysate which expire on September 17, 2019. Expiration of these patents is not expected to have a material impact on our business.
 See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks related to our intellectual property.
 Suppliers
 We believe the raw materials and packaging materials for our hemodialysis concentrates, the components for our hemodialysis kits and the ancillary hemodialysis products distributed by us are generally available from several potential suppliers. We intend to engage CMOs for the manufacture and packaging of our drug products. There are several potential CMOs that are able to manufacture and package our drug products and so it is unlikely we will be dependent on any particular CMO. However, the lead time to qualify and obtain regulatory approval for an additional CMO could be lengthy. Customers
 We operate in one market segment, the hemodialysis market, which involves the manufacture, sale and distribution of hemodialysis products to hemodialysis clinics, including pharmaceutical, dialysis concentrates, dialysis kits and other ancillary products used in the dialysis process. In October 2014, we entered into the Distribution Agreement with Baxter, which was amended in June 2017, pursuant to which Baxter received exclusive distribution rights for our concentrate products in the United States.  Our domestic customer contracts for the supply of dialysis concentrate products that permitted assignment to Baxter without consent have been assigned to Baxter.  As a result, for 

 
  14

2017, 2016 and 2015, our direct sales to Baxter aggregated approximately 27%, 24% and 28% of sales, respectively, and we had a receivable from Baxter of $1,863,412 and $2,430,159 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
 One customer, DaVita Healthcare Partners, Inc., accounted for 50% of our sales in 2017, 52% of our sales in 2016 and 48% of our sales in 2015.  Our accounts receivable from this customer were $2,411,367 and $2,224,046 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  DaVita and Baxter and the accounts administered by Baxter are important to our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The loss of any significant accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our sales in any of the last three years.  
 See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks related to our key customers.
 The majority of our international sales in each of the last three years were sales to domestic distributors that were resold to end users outside the United States.  Our sales directly to foreign customers and distributors accounted for less than 5% of our total sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015.  Our total international sales, including sales made through domestic distributors for resale outside the United States, aggregated 12%, 12% and 13%, of our overall sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
 See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks related to our foreign sales.
 Employees
 As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 300 employees, substantially all of whom are full time employees. Our arrangements with our employees are not governed by any collective bargaining agreement. Our employees are employed on an “at‑will” basis. Research & Development
 Over the last several years we have invested heavily in the testing and development of Triferic. We completed human clinical trials and other testing in 2013, and submitted our NDA for Triferic to the FDA in 2014. We received FDA approval for Triferic in January 2015.  Since approval of Triferic, we have conducted additional clinical studies of Triferic for other indications, presentation in IV formulation and for a pediatric study of Triferic.
 We engaged outside service providers, contract research organizations, consultants and legal counsel to assist us with clinical trials, product development and obtaining regulatory approval. We incurred product development and research costs related to the commercial development, patent approval and regulatory approval of new products, including Triferic, aggregating approximately $6,321,000, $5,840,000 and $4,961,000, in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Future research and product development spending on the Triferic platform may include clinical testing in connection with peritoneal dialysis, total parenteral nutrition and a pediatric indication. 
     Where You Can Get Information We File with the SEC
 Our internet address is http://www.rockwellmed.com. Our internet address is included as an inactive textual reference only and nothing on the website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10‑K. You can access free of charge on our website all of our reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, current reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC.
 The SEC also maintains a website on the internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.
        
 
  15


