Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business
 
Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company,” “we” or “us”), manages its sources of royalty revenues from existing licensing arrangements with other companies primarily related to sales of certain drug products that utilize our proprietary technology. In 2017, the primary source of our royalty revenues was the revenues from Nektar Therapeutics, Inc. (“Nektar”) pursuant to the entrance into a Second Amendment (“Nektar Second Amendment”) to the Company’s Cross-License and Option Agreement (the “Nektar License Agreement”) with, Nektar, which generated non-recurring royalty revenues of $7 million (see below). The receipt of this $7 million satisfied all future obligations of royalty payments to us pursuant to the Nektar License Agreement.
 
Prior to 2017, the primary source of our royalty revenues was derived from sales of PegIntron, which is marketed by Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”). Prior to 2013, we were dedicated to the research and development of innovative therapeutics for patients with high unmet medical needs. We currently have no clinical operations and limited corporate operations. We have no intention of resuming any clinical development activities or acquiring new sources of royalty revenues. Royalty revenues from sales of PegIntron accounted for approximately 7% and 64% of our total royalty revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, net of the effects of an adjustment for Merck’s recoupment of previously overpaid royalties. The effects of such recoupments were recorded as a decrease of royalty revenues aggregating approximately $877,000 for the year ending December 31, 2017, as discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
We wound down our remaining research and development activities during 2013 and we have no intention of resuming any clinical development activities or acquiring new sources of royalty revenues.
 
In April 2013, we announced that we intended to distribute excess cash, expected to arise from royalty revenues, in the form of periodic dividends to stockholders. On February 4, 2016, our Board adopted a Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution (the “Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution”), the implementation of which has been postponed. (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 

4
-

 

 Under our existing agreements with certain third party licensees, we may be entitled to (i) potential future milestone payments contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones with respect to several other drug products in various stages of clinical and preclinical development and (ii) potential future royalty payments related to any future sales of these drug products.  Due to the challenges associated with developing and obtaining approval for drug products, there is substantial uncertainty whether any of these milestones will be achieved.  We also have no control over the time, resources and effort that these third party licensees may devote to their programs and limited access to information regarding or resulting from such programs.   Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive any of the milestone or royalty payments under these agreements. 
 
As part of the our sale of our former specialty pharmaceutical business that was completed in January 2010, we may be entitled to certain potential future milestone payments contingent upon the achievement of certain regulatory approval-related milestones with respect to Oncaspar from Shire plc (“Shire”), which assumed the milestone payment obligations when it acquired the Oncaspar product portfolio from Sigma-Tau Finanziaria S.p.A. in July 2015. In an investor presentation, Shire stated that it anticipated filing a Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for SC Oncaspar with the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2017. In February 2018, Shire indicated that it was in the registration stage and awaiting further regulatory action. If FDA approval is obtained for SC Oncaspar, under our agreement, we would be entitled to a milestone payment of $7.0 million. There can be no assurance that Shire will file a BLA for SC Oncaspar with the FDA or that the FDA will approve the BLA, if filed.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive any of the milestone payments related to SC Oncaspar or any other such milestone payments resulting from its agreements with any of our other third party licensees. We will not recognize revenue until notification from Shire or any of our other third party licensees until all current revenue recognition requirements are met.
 
On June 26, 2017, we entered into the Nektar Second Amendment, wherein Nektar agreed to buy-out all remaining payment obligations to us under the Nektar License Agreement. In consideration for fully paid-up licenses under the Nektar License Agreement and for the dismissal with prejudice of all claims and counterclaims asserted in the litigation with Nektar, Nektar agreed to pay us the sum of $7.0 million, which satisfies all future obligations of royalty payments pursuant to the Nektar License Agreement, the first $3.5 million of which was paid within one business day of the effective date of the Nektar Second Amendment and the remaining $3.5 million was to be paid within one business day of January 5, 2018. Accordingly, we recorded revenue of $7.0 million and a receivable of $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2017. The remaining payment of $3.5 million was received in December 2017.
 
Effective February 4, 2016, we entered into an agreement with our landlord and subtenant at our leased and subleased principal executive offices premises at 20 Kingsbridge Road, Piscataway, New Jersey. Accordingly, on that date, the sublease became a direct lease between the landlord and the subtenant. The landlord agreed that from and after that date, the landlord would take on all of our obligations under the sublease. Additionally, the landlord has waived all claims against us in connection with the prime lease, the sublease or the premises. The landlord has released us from all liability in connection with the prime lease and the sublease and, in exchange therefor, on February 4, 2016, we paid $4.25 million to the landlord’s mortgage lender and approximately $204,000 to the landlord.
 
Commencing on March 1, 2016, we changed the location of our principal executive offices to 20 Commerce Drive, Suite 135, Cranford, New Jersey, 07016. We entered into an office service agreement with Regus Management Group, LLC (“Regus”) for use of office space at this location effective March 1, 2016. The term of the agreement was to continue until February 28, 2017. Under the agreement, in exchange for our right to use the office space at this location, the Company was required to pay Regus an initial service retainer of $2,418 and thereafter paid Regus a monthly fee of $1,209. This agreement was renewed twice and we are currently paying a monthly fee of $1,259 through February 28, 2019.
 

5
-

Plan of Dissolution
 
On February 4, 2016, our Board of Directors adopted the Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution pursuant to which the Company would, subject to obtaining requisite stockholder approval, be liquidated and dissolved in accordance with Sections 280 and 281(a) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. In approving the Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution, our Board of Directors had considered, among other factors, the ability of the Company to obtain no-action relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to suspend certain of the Company’s reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the anticipated cost savings if such relief is granted by the SEC. Upon further review, our Board of Directors determined that it would be fair, advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to postpone seeking stockholder approval of the Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution until a later time to be determined by our Board of Directors.
 
If dissolution and liquidation of the Company pursuant to the Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution are approved by our stockholders and implemented by us, we expect the Company’s corporate existence to continue for the purpose of winding up its business and affairs through the year 2021, consistent with the expiration of our existing license arrangements that generate our royalty revenues. The Company has forecasted minimal or no royalty revenues for the years 2018 through 2021. This forecast is based upon a variety of estimates and numerous assumptions made by the Company’s management with respect to, among other matters, forecasted sales of the drug products for which we have the right to receive royalties and other matters, many of which are difficult to predict, are subject to significant uncertainties, and are beyond the Company’s control. As a result, there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions upon which this forecast is based will prove accurate, that the projected results will be realized or that actual results will not be substantially higher or lower than forecasted.
 
ROYALTIES
 
We currently receive royalty revenues from existing licensing arrangements with Merck primarily related to sales of two marketed drug products, namely, PegIntron ® and Sylatron ®. Until 2017, in recent years, royalty revenues from Merck were our primary source of revenues. In 2017, we earned $7 million in royalties from Nektar in connection with our entering into the Nektar Second Amendment. Royalty revenues from sales of PegIntron accounted for approximately 7% and 64% of our total royalty revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our right to receive royalties on U.S. sales of PegIntron expired in 2016.

DRUG PRODUCT | PRIMARY OR TARGET INDICATIONS | DRUG MARKETER | ROYALTY EXPIRATION 
-------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PegIntron (peginterferon alfa-2b) Sylatron (peginterferon alfa 2b) | Chronic hepatitis C Melanoma | Merck | Expired in U.S.– 2016 Europe – 2018 Japan – 2021 Rest of world – varies by country


6
-

 

PegIntron is a PEG-enhanced version of Merck’s alpha interferon product, INTRON ® A, which is used both as a monotherapy and in combination with REBETOL ® (ribavirin) capsules for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. Merck holds an exclusive worldwide license to PegIntron. We are entitled to receive royalties on Merck’s worldwide sales of PegIntron until certain expiration dates set forth in the license agreement. Our rights to receive royalties from sales of PegIntron expired in the U.S. in 2016 and are expected to expire in Europe in 2018 and expire in Japan in 2021. Merck is responsible for all manufacturing, marketing, and development activities for PegIntron. We designed PegIntron to allow for less frequent dosing and to yield greater efficacy, as compared to INTRON ® A. On March 29, 2011, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved peginterferon alfa-2b (Sylatron®) to treat melanoma with nodal involvement after surgical resection.
 
Sales of PegIntron have been in decline since 2008. Products that compete with PegIntron have been and potentially will be introduced by other drug manufacturers. In addition, there are multiple oral drug therapies, both available and in development, that have been effective for treatment of hepatitis C that don’t require interferon. As a result, we expect sales of PegIntron-related products to continue their declining trend.
 
We have out-licensed our proprietary PEGylation and single-chain antibody, or SCA, technologies on our own and through agreements with Nektar and Micromet AG (“Micromet”). Micromet was acquired by Amgen in 2012. Under our Cross-License and Option Agreement with Nektar, Nektar had the lead role in granting sublicenses for certain of our PEGylation patents and we receive royalties on sales of any approved product for which a sublicense has been granted. Pursuant to the Nektar Second Amendment, we are no longer entitled to any royalties or immunity fees from Nektar under the Nektar License Agreement.
 
 Under our existing agreements with certain third party licensees, we may be entitled to (i) potential future milestone payments contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones with respect to several other drug products in various stages of clinical and preclinical development and (ii) potential future royalty payments related to any future sales of these drug products.  Due to the challenges associated with developing and obtaining approval for drug products, there is substantial uncertainty whether any of these milestones will be achieved.  We also have no control over the time, resources and effort that these third party licensees may devote to their programs and limited access to information regarding or resulting from such programs.   Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive any of the milestone or royalty payments under these agreements. 
 

7
-

COMPETITION
 
PegIntron
 
PegIntron, marketed by Merck, competes directly with Hoffmann-La Roche’s PEGASYS. Merck and Hoffmann-La Roche have been the major competitors in the global interferon alfa market since the approval of their unmodified alpha interferon products, INTRON A and ROFERON-A, respectively, and the PEGylated interferon-based combination therapy is a highly competitive market. On December 6, 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Gilead’s Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) 400 mg tablets, a once-daily oral nucleotide analog polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection as a component of a combination antiviral treatment regimen. Sovaldi was approved in combination with peg-interferon alpha and ribavirin for genotype 1 and 4 patients, and in combination with ribavirin for genotype 2 and 3 patients. On January 17, 2014, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Sovaldi. On October 10, 2014, the FDA approved Gilead’s Harvoni (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir), the first once-daily single tablet regimen for the treatment of genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C infection, eliminating the need for interferon and ribavirin. On November 18, 2014, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Harvoni. On December 19, 2014, the FDA approved Abbvie’s all-oral treatment for hepatitis C, and on January 16, 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for this treatment. In addition, there are multiple oral drug therapies, both available and in development, that have been effective for treatment of hepatitis C that don’t require interferon. As a result, we expect sales of PegIntron-related products to continue their declining trend. We expect that the adoption of oral treatments for hepatitis C will have a negative impact on PegIntron revenues.
Sylatron
 
PegIntron was approved for melanoma in March 2011 under the brand name Sylatron®. Merck competes with marketed drugs sold by Bayer and by Bristol-Myers Squibb.
 
Macugen
 
Macugen, marketed by Valeant and Pfizer Inc., currently competes against several other therapies for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Additional treatments for AMD are in various stages of preclinical or clinical testing. If approved, these treatments would also compete with Macugen. Our rights to receive royalties on sales of Macugen expired in the U.S. and Great Britain in 2014. We believed we were entitled to receive an immunity fee for sales of Macugen after the expiration of our right to receive royalties.
CIMZIA
 
CIMZIA, which is marketed by UCB, currently competes against therapies for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease. CIMZIA is a biologic medicine that counteracts tumor necrosis factor (or TNF), which promotes inflammation of the joints in rheumatoid arthritis. Our rights to receive royalties on sales of CIMZIA expired in the U.S. and Great Britain in 2014. We believed we were entitled to receive an immunity fee for sales of Cimzia after the expiration of our right to receive royalties.
 
In 2017, we settled all current and future immunity fee claims with Nektar, pursuant to the Nektar Second Amendment, for a payment by Nektar of $7 million in consideration for fully paid-up licenses under the Nektar License Agreement and for the dismissal with prejudice of all claims and counterclaims asserted in the litigation with Nektar
 

8
-

PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
 
Patents are very important to us in establishing the proprietary rights to the products we have developed or licensed. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies can be uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in potential future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. We have an extensive portfolio of issued U.S. patents, many of which have foreign counterparts. Of the patents owned or exclusively licensed by us, one relates to PegIntron. The patent related to PegIntron (peginterferon alfa-2b) expired in the U.S. in 2016 and will expire outside of the U.S. in 2018 (including any patent term extensions), except for Japan, where the patent was extended until 2021 and Chile, where the patent expires in 2024. Although we believe that our patents provide certain protection from competition, we cannot assure you that such patents will be of substantial protection or commercial benefit to us, will afford us adequate protection from competing products, or will not be challenged or declared invalid. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional U.S. patents or foreign patent equivalents will be issued to us.
 
Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.
 
In April 2013, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement, we sold to Belrose Pharma, Inc. (“Belrose”), all right, title and interest, including our patents, relating to certain PEG technology and our PEG-SN38 clinical candidate.
 
In the field of SCA proteins, we have several U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION 
 
Although we are no longer engaged in clinical activities, our patent assignees are subject to various government regulatory processes. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements on the clinical development, manufacture, and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These agencies and other federal, state, local and foreign entities regulate research and development activities and the inspection, testing, manufacture, quality assurance, safety, effectiveness, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, record-keeping, approval, and promotion of products. Drug products require regulatory approval before commercialization. In particular, therapeutic products for human use are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act, implemented by the FDA, as well as similar statutory and regulatory requirements of foreign countries. Obtaining these marketing approvals and subsequently complying with ongoing statutory and regulatory requirements is costly and time consuming. Any failure by our collaborators, licensors or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approval or in complying with post-approval requirements, could adversely affect our ability to receive product or royalty revenues.

9
-

 

The approval process can take a number of years, if approval is obtained at all, and often requires substantial financial resources, including license application fees. The results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of the results from large-scale clinical trials, and clinical trials may be subject to additional costs, delays or modifications due to a number of factors, including the difficulty in obtaining enough patients, clinical investigators, drug supply, or financial support.
 

10
--

 

Any products manufactured or distributed by our licensees pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to extensive continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and a requirement to report adverse experiences with the product. In addition to continued compliance with standard regulatory requirements, the FDA also may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the marketed drug product. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product are discovered following approval.
 
Even after FDA approval has been obtained, and often as a condition to expedited approval, further studies, including post-marketing studies, are typically required by the FDA. Results of post-marketing studies may limit or expand the further marketing of the products. If the developer of a product proposes any modifications to the product, including changes in indication, manufacturing or testing processes, manufacturing facility or labeling, an NDA or BLA supplement may be required to be submitted to and approved by the FDA.
 

11
--

 

We cannot predict the extent of government regulation that might result from current or future legislation or administrative action. Moreover, we anticipate that the presidential administration, Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to review and assess controls on health care spending. Any such proposed or actual changes could cause our collaborators to limit or eliminate spending on development projects and may otherwise impact us. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might result from current or future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. Additionally, in both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our proposed products will depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty often exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services.
 
PegIntron has been approved for treatment of hepatitis C in the European Union, the U.S., Japan and China, and for the treatment of hepatitis B in China. None of the product candidates we were developing prior to the termination of our clinical development activities were approved for marketing in the U.S. or elsewhere.
 
With respect to patented products, delays imposed by the government approval process may materially reduce the period during which we will have the exclusive right to exploit them.
 
EMPLOYEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
We currently have no employees. Our executive officers provide services to us on a consulting basis.
 
