Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


PART I 
-------
ITEM 1 | Business | 6 
ITEM 1A | Risk Factors | 23
ITEM 1B | Unresolved Staff Comments | 45
ITEM 2 | Properties | 45
ITEM 3 | Legal Proceedings | 45
ITEM 4 | Mine Safety Disclosures | 45

  Item 1. Business
 
  Overview
 
 We develop, manufacture and sell single-wafer wet cleaning equipment, which semiconductor manufacturers can use in numerous manufacturing steps to remove particles, contaminants and other random defects, and thereby improve product yield, in fabricating advanced integrated circuits, or chips. Our Ultra C equipment is designed to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging a wafer or its features, even at an increasingly advanced process node (the minimum line width on a chip) of 22 nanometers, or nm, or less. Our equipment is based on our innovative, proprietary Space Alternated Phase Shift, or SAPS, and Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation, or TEBO, technologies. We developed our proprietary technologies to enable manufacturers to produce chips that reach their ultimate physical limitations while maintaining product yield, which is the percentage of chips on a wafer that meet manufacturing specifications.
 
 Since 2007 we have focused our development efforts on developing single-wafer wet cleaning equipment based on differentiated proprietary technology:
 
  ●
Our SAPS technology, which we introduced in 2009, employs alternating phases of megasonic waves to deliver megasonic energy to flat and patterned wafer surfaces in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level. We have shown SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray technologies in removing random defects across an entire wafer as node sizes shrink from 300nm to 45nm, including node sizes, for which jet spray technology has proven to be ineffective.


  ●
Our TEBO technology, which we introduced in March 2016, has been developed to provide effective, damage-free cleaning for both conventional two-dimensional, or 2D, and three-dimensional, or 3D, patterned wafers at advanced process nodes. We have demonstrated the damage-free cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on 3D patterned wafers for feature nodes as small as 16nm.


 As of March 19, 2018, we had been issued more than 140 patents in the United States, the People’s Republic of China or the PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.
 
 We seek to market our single-wafer wet processing equipment by first establishing a referenceable base of leading logic and memory chip makers, whose use of our products can influence decisions by other manufacturers. Our SAPS technology employs alternating phases of megasonic waves to deliver megasonic energy to flat and patterned wafer surfaces in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level. We believe this process is helping us penetrate the mature integrated circuit manufacturing markets and build credibility with industry leaders. Since beginning to place evaluation SAPS equipment with a small number of selected customers in 2009, we have worked on equipment improvements and qualification with those customers, who include a leading Korean memory chip company and four leading PRC memory and logic chip foundries. Using a similar “demo-to-sales” process, we have placed TEBO evaluation equipment with a leading PRC foundry and a leading Taiwanese foundry and we recognized revenue from our initial sale of TEBO equipment in 2016. Our revenue from the selected customers’ purchases of single-wafer wet cleaning equipment totaled $19.3 million, or 53.2% of our revenue, in 2017 and $21.5 million, or 78.4% of our total revenue, in 2016.
 
 In 2006 we established our operational center in Shanghai, and we currently conduct substantially all of our development and manufacturing activities in the PRC. Our Shanghai operations position us near potential customers in not only the PRC but also Taiwan, Korea and throughout Asia, giving us increased access to those customers and reducing shipping and manufacturing costs for equipment they purchase. We continue to perform strategic planning and marketing activities in our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California, and we intend to increase the personnel and functions at our Fremont headquarters as part of our plan to expand our market presence in North America and Europe.
  
  
6




 
  Industry Background
 
 Semiconductors are the foundation of the exponential growth of digital technologies and applications. For more than thirty years, strong demand for personal computers, tablet computers, mobile phones and other digital products has fueled the growth of the semiconductor industry. Today the migration of computing, networking and storage to the cloud and the proliferation of “smart” appliances, buildings, cars and devices—the “Internet of Things”—are driving semiconductor development and manufacturing. IC Insights, Inc. (January 2018) estimates that worldwide semiconductor shipments grew from 103.7 billion units in 1987 to 986.2 billion units in 2017 and will increase at a rate of 9.0% to reach 1.1 trillion units in 2018.
 Continuing Demand for Faster, Better, Cheaper Chips
 
 New and enhanced digital applications and products have relied on the development and deployment of progressively faster and more powerful—but ever smaller and less costly—semiconductors known as integrated circuits, or chips. A chip is an array of transistors and other circuit elements built on a wafer of substrate material, typically silicon, with wiring and other interconnects that connect the circuit elements to each other and to outside devices. Chips store and manipulate data in binary form, with the two largest categories of integrated circuits being memory chips, for data storage and retrieval, and logic chips, for computer processing and control.
 
 For a half century the number of transistors that can fit in a given area has roughly doubled every two years, a rate of improvement referred to as “Moore’s Law.” Chip feature sizes have been repeatedly scaled down to pack more transistors in smaller chips. The minimum line width on a chip, known as the node, shrank from 30,000nm in 1963 to 1,000nm in 1989, 90nm in 2003 and 14nm in 2014. A chip today may contain more than thirty billion transistors, with features finer than one ten-thousandth of the diameter of a human hair.
 
 In recent years, however, the rate of chip improvement delivered solely by shrinking feature sizes has slowed. At the 22nm node, transistor and interconnect parameters for conventional chips, in which features are arrayed in 2D structures, begin to approach their critical performance limitations. For example, photolithography, a key chip manufacturing process that projects 193nm laser light through masks to print patterns on a wafer surface, may be unable to create patterning with sufficient resolution and selectivity. Moreover, the feature density and power levels of a 22nm chip may require additional circuit elements, such as special circuitry to correct errors or to track and adapt to performance variations, that occupy chip area and increase cost.
 
 In order to extend Moore’s Law, chip designers and manufacturers are developing and implementing technologies and architectures to transition to advanced chips with 3D structures. Logic chip makers are rapidly adopting use of 3D, fin-shaped Fin Field Effect Transistors, or FinFET, which provide faster switching while consuming less power. For memory chip manufacturers, 3D NAND stacks memory cells to deliver greater capacity at lower cost and 3D cross point, a transistor-less memory cell architecture, is being developed to accelerate processing of massive data sets. EUV lithography is a promising manufacturing technology that could improve patterning capability and increase feature density at nodes of 5nm and beyond by extending photolithography to the extreme ultraviolet wavelength of 13.5nm.
 
  Escalating Need for Advanced Chip Manufacturing Equipment
 
 Manufacturing steps differ for logic and memory chips, but all chips are manufactured in two general processes:
 
  ●
In the front-end fabrication process, hundreds of copies of functional circuitry are created on a 100–to 300–millimeter, or mm, silicon wafer over a period of 6 to 8 weeks. A sequence of a few hundred complex, repetitive steps forms transistors, other circuit elements and interconnects on the wafer through the deposit and selective removal of successive material layers, using photolithography to create a design, deposition to add layers of materials, etching to remove unwanted exposed materials, and chemical mechanical planarization or CMP to smooth the surface for the next cycle of process steps.


  ●
In the back-end assembly and testing process, a completed wafer from the front-end process is cut into individual “dies.” Each die is tested against specifications and, if compliant, encapsulated in a package that protects the die and supports critical power and electrical connections. The resulting chip is then subjected to final electrical and reliability tests.


  
7





 Manufacturing advanced chips at smaller nodes requires a more complex process flow that incorporates enhanced, more expensive capital equipment, or tools, to perform increasingly complex process steps, as well as an increased number of tools to perform a greater number of process steps per wafer. A chip fabrication plant, or fab, may have more than 500 highly specialized tools representing more than 70 categories of equipment, all situated in an environmentally controlled “clean room.” As a result, construction of a new advanced fab can cost between $5 and $10 billion (Semiconductor Industry Association/Nathan Associates, May 2016). Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International or SEMI (December 2017) estimates that worldwide fab tool billings totaled $57.0 billion in 2017 and will reach $63.0 billion by 2017, an increase of 10.5%.
 
 Because of the significant capital expenditures and manufacturing expenses, chip makers focus on improving their yield, which is the percentage of chips on a wafer that conform to specifications. Even with use of precision tools in a controlled manufacturing environment, a substantial number of chips may contain defects and be rejected, directly impacting cost-per-chip and profitability. We estimate that a 1% decrease in yield can reduce annual profits by $30 to $50 million for a fab producing dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, chips on 100,000 wafers per month—and a 1% yield loss may decrease profits even more for a fab making logic chips, which typically have higher prices. Moreover, lower yield may necessitate greater fab capacity, increasing capital expenditures.
 
 New technologies and architectures introduced in transitioning to more advanced nodes can lead to significant yield loss. We believe chip manufacturers with state-of-the-art, established fabs for process nodes of 22nm or more typically target a yield of 90% or more, but yield can drop to as low as 50% when, for example, a manufacturer migrates to chips incorporating FinFET. To reduce yield loss, a manufacturer transitioning to a more advanced node must implement additional fabrication steps and new process capabilities, which in turn require innovative, reliable front-end tool solutions.
 
  Growing Influence of the PRC Across the Semiconductor Industry
 
 The PRC is both the largest and the fastest-growing market for semiconductors. According to a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers (November 2017), during the ten-year period ending in 2016, the PRC’s semiconductor consumption grew at a CAGR of 12.0% while worldwide consumption increased by only 3.2%, and in 2016 the PRC consumed 58.5% of the world’s semiconductors. The PRC government is implementing focused policies, including state-led investment initiatives, that aim to create and support an independent domestic semiconductor supply chain spanning from design to final system production. The PRC has already made significant progress across the principal semiconductor industry sectors, as shown in the following market information compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers (September and November 2017):
   ●
The chip design, or “fabless,” industry is the fastest growing segment of the PRC’s semiconductor industry, with revenue increasing from $2.3 billion in 2006 to $24.8 billion in 2016, a CAGR of 26.6%.

  ●
China’s share of worldwide semiconductor manufacturing capacity expanded from 7.3% in 2006 to 14.2% in 2016, and its semiconductor manufacturing revenue increased at a CAGR of 15.4% over the ten-year period ending in 2016.

  ●
China’s semiconductor packaging, assembly and test revenue also grew at a CAGR of 14.2% over the ten-year period ending in 2015.


 The PRC’s semiconductor tools industry produced less than 0.5% of the world’s semiconductor manufacturing equipment in 2014 (International Trade Association of U.S. Department of Commerce, July 2016). The PRC’s governmental goals anticipate significant growth in all segments of the domestic semiconductor industry, however, and tool manufacturers with a Chinese presence should experience support from both upstream and downstream Chinese companies in the semiconductor supply chain.
 
   
8



 
 
  
  Emerging Criticality of Wafer Cleaning
 
 In the chip fabrication process, random defects such as particles, residual chemicals and other contaminants can lead directly to yield loss by distorting images for pattern formation in a lithographic step, obstructing deposition of a film, blocking an etch or otherwise impairing chip performance. Random defects can originate from substrate material, tools, fab personnel, clean room air and nearly every other aspect of the manufacturing process. Shapes and sizes of random defects vary widely, and with each decrease in process node, the dimension of the smallest random defect that can cause a chip to fail, known as the “killer defect” size, shrinks.
 
 Chip fabrication includes steps designed to eliminate random defects without collapsing patterns, causing loss of materials or otherwise damaging features. The number of these steps has increased dramatically with chip complexity. Cleaning is now the most frequently repeated step in chip fabrication and may be performed in as many as 200 steps for each wafer. A sub-optimal cleaning process has repeated opportunities to reduce yield by being either insufficiently forceful, which leaves random defects behind, or overly aggressive, which damages the chip. Over the past decade, fabricators seeking to improve cleaning performance have switched from batch processes, in which several wafers are processed at the same time, to single-wafer cleaning tools.
 
 There are two basic types of cleaning methods. Wet cleaning uses liquid chemistry by applying combinations of solvents, acids and water to spray, scrub, etch and dissolve random defects. Dry cleaning uses gas phase chemistry, relying on chemical reactions and techniques such as lasers, aerosols and ozonated chemistries. Wet cleaning typically outperforms dry cleaning in achieving wafer surface cleanliness and smoothness, and it is the standard method for single-wafer cleaning, constituting more than 90% of the cleaning steps in the fabrication process. RCA clean, a standardized process using hot alkaline and acidic hydrogen peroxide solutions, has been the industry standard for wet cleaning for a quarter century.
 
 Wet cleaning’s chemistry has not changed appreciably over the past 25 years, but its implementation has shifted from simple immersion to increasingly sophisticated techniques such as jet spraying and megasonic vibration. Jet spray cleaning shoots high-velocity, tens of micron-sized water droplets at a wafer surface to remove random defects. Megasonic cleaning transmits acoustic waves through a fluid bath to produce, in a process known as transient cavitation, bubble oscillation that dislodges random defects. The cavitation can dislodge defects unreachable by jet spray, but the bubbles collapse quickly and can generate energy that damages wafer features.
 
 As jet spray and megasonic cleaning techniques have continued to develop, chip makers have regularly upgraded from simple tanks with on-off switches to complex, specialized, expensive single-wafer cleaning tools.
 
  Inadequacy of Traditional Single-Wafer Cleaning Technologies
 
 At process nodes of 100nm or more, chips consisted of 2D features and architectures, which made wafer cleaning relatively straightforward. Cleaning was most commonly performed in batch processes using an immersion tool with megasonic energy. Megasonic vibrations transmit at relatively high frequencies and therefore create smaller bubbles that remove more-diminutive defects and that generate lower levels of destructive transient energy when they collapse.
 
 As process nodes shrank below 100nm, equipment manufacturers introduced single-wafer megasonic cleaning tools, which processed wafers one by one, rather than in batches. Because these tools did not deliver energy uniformly across the wafer surface, manufacturers found the tools did not clean wafers thoroughly and evenly and, increasingly as process nodes continued to shrink, led to damage to patterned wafer structures. Equipment makers also began to offer single-wafer cleaning tools that used jet spraying rather than acoustic vibrations. The physical energyof jet spraying enabled these tools to be used with less assertive chemicals, which reduced wafer material loss. Once process nodes reach 45nm, however, the force of jet sprayed water droplets can damage finer chip features and jet spraying can fail to eliminate killer defect-sized contaminants due to its reduced lateral fluid speed as the fluid approaches the wafer surfaces.
  
  
9


 As process nodes continue to shrink to 22nm and less, finer feature sizes and denser, more complex architectures make the cleaning process even more complicated and challenging:
 
  ●
Random defects are harder to remove as the killer defect size decreases. Smaller random defects are denser and bind to a wafer more strongly than larger contaminants, and additional energy is required to deliver greater levels of necessary force to more minuscule sizes.


  ●
New 3D architectures are often more delicate or fragile than 2D conventional structures. FinFET structures, for example, are relatively tall, thin and deep, which makes them more susceptible to damage or destruction by the physical force of jet sprays and megasonic transient cavitation used in the cleaning process.


  ●
New chip technologies and architectures amplify cleaning challenges. It is, for example, progressively more difficult to remove random defects from the bottom of a chip structure, such as a via, as the “aspect ratio” of the structure’s depth to its width increases. While conventional 2D structures typically have aspect ratios of 3-to-1 or less, FinFET structures have aspect ratios of 10-to-1 currently and are expected to have aspect ratios in excess of 20-to-1 for future process nodes. Moreover, aspect ratios for 3D NAND, 3D cross point and other 3D structures may reach 60-to-1.


 Effective, damage-free cleaning poses a significant challenge for manufacturers seeking to fabricate chips in the advanced process nodes available today or introduced in the future, including the 10nm node announced for 2017 and the 7nm node announced for 2018. In order to extend Moore’s law, chip manufacturers must be able to remove ever smaller random defects from not only flat wafer surfaces but also progressively more intricate, finer-featured 3D chip architectures, in each case without incurring damage or material loss that curtails yield and profits. Because fabrication of chips at 22nm or less requires an increasingly complex, specialized process flow, a next-generation single-wafer cleaning tool solution should be designed to be easily tailored to meet a manufacturer’s unique process requirements. The single-wafer cleaning tools should produce less environmentally harmful chemical waste and should be easily accessible to manufacturers in the burgeoning Chinese market.
  
  Our Solutions
 
 We have developed single-wafer wet cleaning equipment that chip manufacturers can use in numerous steps of the fabrication process in order to avoid yield loss at existing and future process nodes. Using our proprietary technologies, we have designed our wet cleaning equipment to remove random defects from chip wafers with fine feature sizes, complex patterning, dense circuit architectures and high aspect ratios more effectively than traditional jet spray and transient megasonic technologies. Key elements of our solutions include:
 
 Differentiated technologies for advanced chips. Our proprietary single-wafer wet cleaning technologies control the power intensity and distribution of megasonic cleaning in order to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging the wafer or its features, even at process nodes of 22nm or less. We developed these technologies to help semiconductor manufacturers produce chips that reach their ultimate physical limitations.
 
  ●
Flat and patterned wafer surfaces. Our SAPS technology, which we introduced in 2009, employs alternating phases of megasonic waves to deliver megasonic energy to flat and patterned wafer surfaces in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level. We have shown SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray technologies in removing random defects across an entire wafer as node sizes shrink from 300nm to 45nm, including node sizes less than 50nm in size, for which jet spray technology has proven to be ineffective. Based on their initial mass production experience with SAPS equipment, customers have increased their use of SAPS equipment by adding cleaning steps to the manufacturing processes for advanced chips in order to achieve higher yields and reduce chemical usage.


  ●
High-aspect ratio conventional 2D and advanced 3D patterned wafer surfaces. Our TEBO technology, which we introduced in March 2016, has been developed to provide effective, damage-free cleaning for both conventional 2D and 3D patterned wafers at advanced process nodes. TEBO technology provides multi-parameter control of bubble cavitation during megasonic cleaning by using a sequence of rapid pressure changes to force bubbles to oscillate at controlled sizes, shapes and temperatures. Because the bubbles oscillate instead of imploding or collapsing, TEBO technology avoids the pattern damage caused by transient cavitation in traditional megasonic cleaning processes. We have demonstrated the damage-free cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on patterned wafers for feature nodes as small as 1xnm (16nm to 19nm), and we have shown that TEBO technology can be applied in manufacturing processes for patterned chips with 3D architectures such as FinFET, DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory having aspect ratios as high as 60-to-1. We believe TEBO technology can be applied for even smaller process nodes. TEBO tools are currently being evaluated by a selected group of leading memory and logic chip manufacturers.


 China-based operations. In 2006 we established our operational center in Shanghai, and currently we conduct substantially all of our development and manufacturing activities in the PRC. This strategy positions us near potential customers throughout Asia, giving us increased access to those customers and reducing shipping and manufacturing costs for equipment they purchase. SEMI (November 2016) estimates 78% of new front-end facilities and production lines starting operation from 2017 through 2020 will be constructed in Asia, with 42% expected to be built in the PRC. Our Shanghai location also gives us access to a large pool of highly qualified potential employees.
 
   
10



 
    Extensive intellectual property protection. Since our formation in 1998, we have focused on building a strategic portfolio of intellectual property to support and protect our key innovations, including most recently our SAPS and TEBO technologies. As of March 19, 2018, we had been issued more than 140 patents in the United States, the PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.
 
 Custom-made wafer assembly packaging solutions. In addition to our product offerings for single-wafer cleaning in the front-end wafer fabrication process, we leverage our technology and expertise to provide a wide range of advanced packaging equipment, such as coaters, developers, photoresist strippers, scrubbers, wet etchers and copper-plating tools, to back-end wafer assembly and packaging factories, particularly in the PRC. For these offerings, we focus on providing customized equipment with competitive performance, service and pricing.

  Our Strategy
  
 Our objective is to be the leading global provider of a full range of wet cleaning equipment for the manufacture of advanced integrated circuits. To achieve this goal, we are pursuing the following strategies:
  
 Extend technology leadership. We intend to build upon our technology leadership in wet processing by continuing to develop and refine our differentiated SAPS and TEBO technologies and equipment to address cleaning challenges presented by the manufacture of increasingly advanced chip nodes. Our investment in research and development totaled $5.1 million, or 14.1% of our revenue, in 2017 and $3.3 million, or 11.9% of our revenue, in 2016. We will continue to invest in product development and to strengthen our global patent portfolio in strategic jurisdictions.
  
 Establish referenceable customer base. In commercializing our SAPS equipment, we placed evaluation equipment with selected customers, who subsequently purchased additional SAPS equipment to enable them to add more cleaning steps during their manufacturing processes. Using a similar “demo-to-sales” process, we have placed TEBO evaluation equipment with a leading PRC foundry and a leading Taiwanese foundry and we recognized revenue from our initial sale of TEBO equipment in 2016. Based on our market experience, we believe that implementation of our SAPS and TEBO equipment by selected leading memory and logic chip manufacturers will encourage evaluation of our equipment by other manufacturers, who will view the leading companies’ implementation as a validation of our equipment that facilitates a shorter evaluation process.
  
 Leverage local presence to address growing Chinese market. The market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the PRC is expected to grow markedly in the upcoming years. Our experience has shown that chip manufacturers in the PRC demand equipment meeting their specific technical requirements and prefer building relationships with local suppliers. We established our operations in Shanghai a decade ago, and we will continue to work closely with chip manufacturers in the PRC and throughout Asia to understand their specific requirements, encourage them to adopt our SAPS and TEBO technologies, and enable us to design innovative products and solutions to address their needs.
  
 Continue to improve performance through operational excellence. We actively manage our business through principles of operational excellence designed to ensure continuous improvement of our key operational and financial metrics. As we increase the breadth of our product offerings and the size of our operations and customer base, we must continue to develop and implement these principles in order to improve the efficiency and quality of our operations, satisfy our customers’ needs, and meet our financial goals.
  
 Pursue strategic acquisitions and relationships. To complement and accelerate our internal growth, we may pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or business relationships that will expand the functionality of our products, provide access to new markets or customers, or otherwise complement our existing operations. We also may seek to expand our product and service offerings by entering into business relationships involving additional distribution channels, investments in other enterprises and joint ventures, or similar arrangements. In September 2017, we acquired 20% of the outstanding equity of Ninebell, one of our key subassembly providers.
 
  Our Products and Technologies
 
 We develop, manufacture and sell single-wafer wet cleaning equipment usable at numerous steps of the chip manufacturing process flow to improve product yield for conventional 2D and advanced 3D patterned chips at small process nodes. Our equipment, which we market and sell under the brand name “Ultra C,” is designed to remove random defects from a wafer surface effectively, without damaging the wafer or its features, even at increasingly advanced process nodes.
 
 After incorporating in 1998, we initially focused on developing tools for manufacturing process steps involving the integration of ultra-low-K materials and copper. Ultra-low-K materials, which insulate better than silicon, presented opportunities for size scaling and performance improvement, and higher conductivity copper had begun to replace aluminum in forming interconnects. Our early efforts focused in particular on stress-free copper-polishing technology, and we sold tools based on that technology in the early 2000s.
  
  
11




 
 In 2006 we established our operational center in Shanghai. This strategic decision was made to help us establish and build relationships with chip manufacturers in China and throughout Asia, which helps us to understand their requirements and to develop innovative technologies and tools addressing their needs.
 
 In 2007 we began to focus our development efforts on single-wafer wet-cleaning solutions for the front-end fabrication process. We have developed innovative, proprietary technologies that reintroduce megasonic technology to the wafer cleaning process. Our approach is based on our understanding of the shortfalls and limitations of previously existing megasonic cleaning technologies that led to ineffective cleaning and damaged chip features. In 2009 we introduced our proprietary Space Alternated Phase Shift, or SAPS, megasonic technology, which can be applied in flat patterned wafer cleaning at numerous steps during the chip fabrication process. By delivering megasonic energy uniformly across a wafer, SAPS technology eliminates the particle removal inefficiencies that characterized traditional megasonic cleaning technologies. In March 2016 we introduced our proprietary Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation, or TEBO, technology, which can be applied at numerous steps during the fabrication of small node conventional 2D and 3D patterned wafers. By providing multi-parameter control of bubble cavitation during megasonic cleaning, TEBO technology avoids the fine-pattern damage caused by previously existing megasonic cleaning processes.
 
 We have designed our equipment models for SAPS and TEBO solutions using a modular configuration that enables us to create a wet-cleaning tool meeting the specific requirements of a customer, while using pre-existing designs for chamber, electrical, chemical delivery and other modules. Our modular approach supports a wide range of customer needs and facilitates the adaptation of our model tools for use with the optimal chemicals selected to meet a customer’s requirements. Our tools are offered principally for use in manufacturing chips from 300mm silicon wafers, but we also offer solutions for 150mm and 200mm wafers and for nonstandard substrates, including quartz, sapphire and glass.
 
 In addition to our SAPS and TEBO tool offerings, we offer a range of custom-made equipment, such as cleaners, coaters, developers, photoresist strippers, wet etchers and copper-plating tools, to back-end wafer assembly and packaging factories, principally in the PRC.
 
  Space Alternated Phase Shift Cleaning
 
  SAPS Technology
 
 SAPS technology delivers megasonic energy uniformly to every point on an entire wafer by alternating phases of megasonic waves in the gap between a megasonic transducer and the wafer. Radicals for removing random defects are generated in dilute solution, and the radical generation is promoted by megasonic energy. Unlike “stationary” megasonic transducers used by conventional megasonic cleaning methods, SAPS technology moves or tilts a transducer while a wafer rotates, enabling megasonic energy to be delivered uniformly across all points on the wafer, even if the wafer is warped. The mechanical force of cavitations generated by megasonic energy enhances the mass transfer rate of dislodged random defects and improves particle removal efficiency.
 
 By delivering megasonic energy in a highly uniform manner on a microscopic level, SAPS technology can precisely control the intensity of megasonic energy and can effectively remove random defects of all sizes across the entire wafer in less total cleaning time than conventional megasonic cleaning products, without loss of material or roughing of wafer surfaces. We have conducted trials demonstrating SAPS technology to be more effective than conventional megasonic and jet spray cleaning technologies as defect sizes shrink from 300nm to 45nm. These trials show that SAPs technology has an even greater relative advantage over conventional jet spray technology when cleaning defects between 50 and 65nm in size and that SAPs technology continues to be effective for defects of sizes between 45 nm and 50nm, for which jet spray technology has proven to be ineffective.
 
  SAPS Applications
 
 SAPS megasonic cleaning technology can be applied during the chip fabrication process to clean wafer surfaces and interconnects. It also can be used to clean, and lengthen the lifetime of, recycled test wafers.
  
  
12




 
 Wafer Surfaces. SAPS technology can enhance removal of random defects following planarization and deposition, which are among the most important, and most repeated, steps in the fabrication process:
 
  ●
Post CMP: Chemical mechanical planarization, or CMP, uses an abrasive chemical slurry following other fabrication processes, such as deposition and etching, in order to achieve a smooth wafer surface in preparation for subsequent processing steps. SAPS technology can be applied following each CMP process to remove residual random defects deposited or formed during CMP.


  ●
Post Hard Mask Deposition: As part of the photolithographical patterning process, a mask is applied with each deposition of a material layer to prevent etching of material intended to be retained. Hard masks have been developed to etch high aspect-ratio features of advanced chips that traditional masks cannot tolerate. SAPS technology can be applied following each deposition step involving hard masks that use nitride, oxide or carbon based materials to achieve higher etch selectivity and resolution.


 For these purposes, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals, reducing chemical consumption. Chemical types include dilute solutions of chemicals used in RCA cleaning, such as dilute hydrofluoric acid and RCA SC-1 solutions, and, for higher quality wafer cleaning, functional de-ionized water produced by dissolving hydrogen, nitrogen or carbon dioxide in water containing a small amount of chemicals, such as ammonia. Functional water removes random defects by generating radicals, and megasonic excitation can be used in conjunction with functional water to further increase the generation of radicals. Functional water has a lower cost and environmental impact than RCA solutions, and using functional water is more efficient in eliminating random defects than using dilute chemicals or de-ionized water alone. We have shown that SAPS megasonic technology using functional water exhibits high efficiency in removing random defects, especially particles smaller than 65nm, with minimal damage to structures.
 
 Interconnects and Barrier Metals. Each successive advanced process node has led to finer feature sizes of interconnects such as contacts, which form electrical pathways between a transistor and the first metal layer, and vias, which form electrical pathways between two metal layers. Advanced nodes have also resulted in higher aspect ratios for interconnect structures, with thinner, redesigned metal barriers being used to prevent diffusion. SAPS technology can improve the removal of residues and other random defects from interconnects during the chip fabrication process:
 
  ●
Post Contact/Via Etch: Wet etching processes are commonly used to create patterns of high-density contacts and vias. SAPS technology can be applied after each such etching process to remove random defects that could otherwise lead to electrical shorts.


  ●
Pre Barrier Metal Deposition: Copper wiring requires metal diffusion barriers at the top of via holes to prevent electrical leakage. SAPS technology can be applied prior to deposition of barrier metal to remove residual oxidized copper, which otherwise would adhere poorly to the barrier and impair performance.


 For these applications, SAPS technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, ozonated de-ionized water and functional de-ionized water with dissolved hydrogen. These chemical solutions take the place of piranha solution, a high-temperature mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide used by conventional wet wafer cleaning processes. We have shown that SAPS technology exhibits greater efficiency in removing random defects, and lower levels of material loss, than conventional processes, and our chemical solutions are less expensive and more environmentally conscious than piranha solution.
  
  
13




 
 Recycled Test Wafers. In addition to using silicon wafers for chip production, chip manufacturers routinely process wafers through a limited portion of the front-end fabrication steps in order to evaluate the health, performance and reliability of those steps. Manufacturers also use wafers for non-product purposes such as inline monitoring. Wafers used for purposes other than manufacturing revenue products are known as test wafers, and it is typical for twenty to thirty percent of the wafers circulating in a fab to be test wafers. In light of the significant cost of wafers, manufacturers seek to re-use a test wafer for more than one test. As test wafers are recycled, surface roughness and other defects progressively impair the ability of a wafer to complete tests accurately. SAPS technology can be applied to reduce random defect levels of a recycled wafer, enabling the test wafer to be reclaimed for use in additional testing processes. For these purposes, SAPS technology includes improved fan filter units that balances intake and exhaust flows, precise temperature and concentration controls that ensure better handling of concentrated acid processes, and two-chemical recycle capability that reduces chemical consumption.
  
 SAPS Equipment
 
 We currently offer two models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our SAPS technology, Ultra C SAPS II and Ultra C SAPS V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute
  
chemicals, used to remove random defects from wafer surfaces or interconnects and barrier metals as part of the chip front-end fabrication process or for purposes of recycling test wafers. By combining our megasonic and chemical cleaning technologies, we have designed these tools to remove random defects with greater efficacy and efficiency than conventional wafer cleaning processes, with enhanced process flexibility and reduced quantities of chemicals. Each of our SAPS models was initially built to meet specific requirements of a key customer. We expect the sales prices of our SAPS tools generally to range between $2.5 million and $5.0 million, although the sales price of a particular tool will vary depending upon the required specifications.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
 SAPS II was released in 2011. Its key features include:
  
 
● compact design, with footprint of 2.65m x 4.10m x 2.85m (WxDxH), requiring limited clean room floor space; ● up to 8 chambers, providing throughput of up to 225 wafers per hour; ● double-sided cleaning capability, with up to 5 cleaning chemicals for process flexibility; ● 2-chemical recycling capability for reduced chemical consumption; ● image wafer detection method for lowering wafer breakage rates; and ● chemical delivery module for delivery of dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
  
14




 
 SAPS V, which was released in 2014, offers increased productivity for chip manufacturers moving to advanced nodes. SAPS V provides all of the features and functionality of SAPS II, upgraded as follows:
  
 
● compact design, with footprint of 2.55m x 5.1m x 2.85m (WxDxH); ● up to 12 chambers, providing throughput of up to 375 wafers per hour; ● chemical supply system integrated into mainframe; ● inline mixing method replaces tank auto-changing, reducing process time; and ● improved drying technology using hot isopropyl alcohol and de-ionized water. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Timely Energized Bubble Oscillation Cleaning
 
  TEBO Technology
 
 We developed TEBO technology for application in wet wafer cleaning during the fabrication of both conventional 2D and 3D patterned wafers with fine feature sizes. TEBO technology facilitates effective cleaning even with patterned features too small or fragile to be addressed by conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning technologies.
 
 TEBO technology solves the problems created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Cavitation is the formation of bubbles in a liquid, and transient cavitation is a process in which a bubble in fluid implodes or collapses. In conventional megasonic cleaning processes, megasonic energy forms bubbles and then causes those bubbles to implode or collapse, blasting destructive high-pressure, high-temperature micro jets toward the wafer surface. Our internal testing has confirmed that at any level of megasonic energy capable of removing random defects, the sonic energy and mechanical force generated by transient cavitation are sufficiently strong to damage fragile patterned structures with features less than 70nm.
 
 TEBO technology provides multi-parameter control of cavitation by using a sequence of rapid changes in pressure to force a bubble in liquid to oscillate at controlled sizes, shapes and temperatures, rather than implode or collapse. As a result, cavitation remains stable during TEBO megasonic cleaning processes, and a chip fabricator can, using TEBO technology, apply the level of megasonic energy needed to remove random defects without incurring the pattern damage created by transient cavitation in conventional megasonic cleaning.
 
 We have demonstrated the damage-free cleaning capabilities of TEBO technology on customers’ patterned wafers as small as 1xnm (16nm to 19nm), and we believe TEBO technology will be applicable in even smaller fabrication process nodes. TEBO technology can be applied in manufacturing processes for conventional 2D chips with fine features and advanced chips with 3D structures, including FinFET, DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory aswell as other 3D architectures that may be developed in the future, such as carbon nanotubes and quantum devices. As a result of the thorough, controlled nature of TEBO processes, cleaning time for TEBO-based solutions may take longer than conventional megasonic cleaning processes. Conventional processes have proven ineffective, however, for process nodes of 20nm or less, and we believe the increased yield that can be achieved by using TEBO technology for nodes up to 70nm can more than offset the cost of the additional time in utilizing TEBO technology.
 
  TEBO Applications
 
 At process nodes of 28nm and less, chip makers face escalating challenges in eliminating nanometric particles and maintaining the condition of inside pattern surfaces. In order to maintain chip quality and avoid yield loss, cleaning technologies must control random defects of diminishing killer defect sizes, without roughing or otherwise damaging surfaces of transistors, interconnects or other wafer features. TEBO technology can be applied in numerous steps throughout the manufacturing process flow for effective, damage-free cleaning:
 
  ●
Memory Chips: TEBO technology can be applied in up to a total of 47 steps in the fabrication of a dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, chip, consisting of 8 steps in cleaning ISO structures, 19 steps in cleaning buried gates, and 20 steps in cleaning high aspect-ratio storage nodes and stacked films.


  ●
Logic Chips: In the fabrication process for a logic chip with a FinFET structure, TEBO technology can be used in 15 or more cleaning steps.


  
15





 For purposes of solving inside pattern surface conditions for memory or logic chips, TEBO technology uses environmentally friendly dilute chemicals such as RCA SC-1 and hydrogen gas doped functional water.
 
  TEBO Equipment
 
 We currently offer two models of wet wafer cleaning equipment based on our TEBO technology, Ultra C TEBO II and Ultra C TEBO V. Each of these models is a single-wafer, serial-processing tool that can be configured to customer specifications and, in conjunction with appropriate dilute chemicals, used at numerous manufacturing processing steps for effective, damage-free cleaning of chips at process nodes 28nm or less. TEBO equipment solves the problem of pattern damage caused by transient cavitation in conventional jet spray and megasonic cleaning processes, providing better particle removal efficiency with limited material loss or roughing. TEBO equipment currently is being evaluated by a select group of leading memory and logic chip customers, some of which recently have indicated an intent to move to production. We expect the sales prices of our TEBO tools generally to range between $3.5 million and $6.5 million, although the sales price of a particular tool will vary depending upon the required specifications.
 
 Each model of TEBO equipment includes:
  
 
● an equipment front-end module, or EFEM, which moves wafers from chamber to chamber; ● one or more chamber modules, each equipped with a TEBO megasonic generator system; ● an electrical module to provide power for the tool; and ● a chemical delivery module. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
 Ultra C TEBO II was released in 2016. Its key features include:
  
 
● compact design, with footprint of 2.25m x 2.25m x 2.85m (WxDxH); ● up to 8 chambers with an upgraded transport system and optimized robotic scheduler, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour; ● EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, transfer robot and 1 process robot; and ● focus on dilute chemicals contributes to environmental sustainability and lower cost of ownership. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



  
16





 Ultra C TEBO V also was introduced in 2016, and its key features include:
  
 
● footprint of 2.45m x 5.30m x 2.85m (WxDxH); ● up to 12 chamber modules, providing throughput of up to 300 wafers per hour; ● EFEM module consisting of 4 load ports, 1 transfer robot and 1 process robot; and ● chemical delivery module for delivery of isopropyl alcohol, dilute hydrofluoric acid, RCA SC-1 solution, functional de-ionized water and carbon dioxide to each of the chambers. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Custom-Made Wafer Assembly and Packaging Equipment
 
 We leverage our technology and expertise to provide a range of single-wafer tools for back-end wafer assembly and packaging factories, principally in the PRC. We focus on providing custom-made, differentiated equipment that incorporates customer-requested features, at a competitive price. The sales prices for these tools generally range between $500,000 and $1.0 million, and these offerings generated $5.7 million, or 20.9%, of our revenue in 2016 and $4.2 million, or 13.5%, of our revenue in 2015.

For example, our Ultra C Coater is used in applying photoresist, a light-sensitive material used in photolithography to transfer a pattern from a mask onto a wafer. Coaters typically provide input and output elevators, shuttle systems and other devices to handle and transport wafers during the coating process. Unlike most coaters, the Ultra C Coater is fully automated. In addition, based on requests from customers, we developed and incorporated the special function of chamber auto-clean module into the Ultra C Coater, which further differentiates it from other products in the market. The Ultra C Coater is designed to deliver improved throughput and more efficient tool utilization while eliminating particle generation.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Our other advanced packaging tools include: Ultra C Developer, which applies liquid developer to selected parts of photoresist to resolve an image; Ultra C PR Megasonic-Assisted Stripper, which removes photoresist; Ultra C Scrubber, which scrubs and cleans wafers; and Ultra C Thin Wafer Scrubber, which addresses a sub-market of cleaning very thin wafers for certain Asian assembly factories; and Ultra C Wet Etcher, which etches silicon wafers and copper and titanium interconnects.
  
  
17





  Our Customers
 
 As of December 31, 2017, customers had purchased and deployed more than 30 Ultra C SAPS and TEBO cleaning tools. All of our sales in 2016 and 2017 were to customers located in Asia, and we anticipate that a substantial majority of our revenue will continue to come from customers located in this region for the near future. We have increased our efforts to penetrate the markets in North America and Western Europe, and we believe we are well positioned to begin generating sales in those regions.
 
 We generate most of our revenue from a limited number of customers as the result of our strategy of initially placing SAPS - and TEBO-based equipment with a small number of leading chip manufacturers that are driving technology trends and key capability implementation. In 2017, 55.2% of our revenue was derived from four customers: SK Hynix Inc., a leading Korean memory chip company that accounted for 18.1% of our revenue; Shanghai Integrated Circuit Research and Development Center Ltd., a public research consortia for the Chinese semiconductor industry that accounted for 14.1% of our revenue; JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 12.8% of our revenue; and Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd., a leading PRC memory chip company that, together with one of its subsidiaries, accounted 10.2% of our revenue. In 2016 99.3% of our revenue was derived from four customers: Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation, a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 33.7% of our revenue; Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 25.0% of our revenue; SK Hynix Inc. accounted for 24.0% of our revenue; and JiangYin ChangDian Advanced Packaging Co. Ltd., a leading PRC foundry that accounted for 16.6% of our revenue.
 
 Based on our market experience, we believe that implementation of our equipment by one of our selected leading companies will attract and encourage other manufacturers to evaluate our equipment, because the leading company’s implementation will serve as validation of our equipment and will enable the other manufacturers to shorten their evaluation processes. We placed our first SAPS-based tool in 2009 as a prototype. We worked closely with the customer for two years in debugging and modifying the tool, and the customer then spent two more years of qualification and running pilot production before beginning volume manufacturing. Our revenue in 2015 included sales of SAPS-based tools following the customer’s completion of its qualification process. We expect that the period from new product introduction to high volume manufacturing will be three years or less in the future. Please see “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry—We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. There are also a limited number of potential customers for our products.”
 
 Customers continue to establish joint ventures, alliances and licensing arrangements that have the potential to positively or negatively impact our competitive position and market opportunities. A material reduction in orders from our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations and projected financial condition. Our business depends upon the expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers. Semiconductor manufacturers’ businesses, in turn, depend on many factors, including their financial capability, the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the global economy and the availability of equipment capacity to support that demand.
 
  Sales and Marketing
 
 We market and sell our products worldwide using a combination of our direct sales force and third-party representatives. We employ direct sales teams in Asia, Europe and North America, and have located these teams near our customers, primarily in the PRC, Korea, Taiwan and the United States. Each sales person has specific local market expertise. We also employ field application engineers, who are typically co-located with our direct sales teams, to provide technical pre- and post-sale support tours and other assistance to existing and potential customers throughout the customers’ fab planning and production line qualification and fab expansion phases. Our field application engineers are organized by end markets as well as core competencies in hardware, control system, software and process development to support our customers.
 
  
18





 To supplement our direct sales teams, we have contacts with several independent sales representatives in the PRC, Taiwan and Korea. We select these independent representatives based on their ability to provide effective field sales, marketing forecast and technical support for our products. In the case of representatives, our customers place purchase orders with us directly rather than with the representatives.
 
 Our sales have historically been made using purchase orders with agreed technical specifications. Our sales terms and conditions are generally consistent with industry practice, but may vary from customer to customer. We seek to obtain a purchase order three to four months ahead of the customer’s desired delivery date. For some customers, we receive a letter of intent three weeks ahead, followed by the corresponding purchase order five weeks ahead, of the customer’s desired delivery date. Consistent with industry practice, we allow customers to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice. Because of our relatively short delivery period and our practice of permitting rescheduling or cancellation, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue.
 
 Our marketing team focuses on our product strategy and technology road maps, product marketing, new product introduction processes, demand assessment and competitive analysis, customer requirement communication and public relations. Our marketing team also has the responsibility to conduct environmental scans, study industry trends and arrange our participation at major trade shows.
  
  Manufacturing
 
 All of our products are built to order at our facility in Shanghai. Our manufacturing facility has a total of 36,000 square feet, with 8,000 square feet of class 10,000 clean room space for product assembly and testing, plus 800 square feet of class 1 clean room space for product demonstration purposes. The rest of the area is used for product sub-assembly, component inventory and manufacturing related offices. A class designation for a clean room denotes the number of particles of size 0.5mm or larger permitted per cubic foot of air. Our manufacturing facility is ISO-9000 certified, and we have implemented certain manufacturing science-based factory practices such as constraint management, statistical process control and failure mode and effect analysis methodology.
 
 In each of 2016 and 2017, we sourced approximately one-third of the parts and components ($8.0 million in 2016 and $10.8M in 2017) for our products from Chinese suppliers and the remaining parts and components were sourced from suppliers in the United States and, to a lesser extent, Japan and Korea
 
 We purchase some of the components and assemblies that we include in our products from single source suppliers. We believe that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources to supply these components. Nevertheless, any prolonged inability to obtain these components could have an adverse effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our customer relationships. Please see “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry—We depend on a limited number of suppliers, including single source suppliers, for critical components and assemblies, and our business could be disrupted if they are unable to meet our needs.”
 
  Research and Development
 
 We believe that our success depends in part on our ability to develop and deliver breakthrough technologies and capabilities to meet our customers’ ever-more challenging technical requirements. For this reason, we devote significant financial and personnel resources to research and development. Our research and development team is comprised of highly skilled engineers and technologists with extensive experience in megasonic technology, cleaning processes and chemistry, mechanical design, and control system design. As of December 31, 2017, approximately half of our research and development personnel hold advanced technical degrees. To supplement our internal expertise, we also collaborate with external research and development entities such as International SEMATECH, a global consortium of computer chip manufacturers, on specific areas of interests and retain, as technical advisors, several experts in semiconductor technology.
 
  
19





 For the foreseeable future we are focusing on enhancing our existing Ultra C SAPS and TEBO tools and integrating additional capabilities to meet and anticipate requirements from our existing and potential customers. Our particular areas of focus include development of the following:
 
  ● 
 new cleaning steps for Ultra C SAPS cleaners for application in logic chips and for DRAM, 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory technologies;


  ● 
 new cleaning steps for Ultra C TEBO cleaners for FinFET in logic chips, gates in DRAM, and deep vias in both 3D NAND and 3D cross point memory technologies;


  ● 
 new hardware, including new system platforms, new chamber structures and new chemical blending systems; and


  ● 
 new software to integrate new functionalities to improve tool performance.


 Longer term, we are working on new proprietary process capabilities based on our existing tool hardware platforms. We are also working to integrate our tools with third-party tools in adjacent process areas in the chip manufacturing flow. Without reduction by grant amounts received from PRC governmental authorities (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Components of Results of Operations—PRC Government Research and Development Funding”), our gross research and development expense totaled $8.6 million, or 23.4% of revenue, in 2017 and $9.5 million, or 34.7% of revenue, in 2016. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support and enhance our existing cleaning products and to develop future product offerings to build and maintain our technology leadership position.
  
  Intellectual Property
 
 Our success and future revenue growth depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We control access to and use of our proprietary technologies, software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, consultants, advisors, customers, partners and suppliers. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. All employees and consultants are required to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment and consulting relationships with us. We also require them to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived or made in connection with the employment or consulting relationship.
 
 We have aggressively pursued intellectual property since our founding in 1998. We focus our patent efforts in the United States, and, when justified by cost and strategic importance, we file corresponding foreign patent applications in strategic jurisdictions such as the European Union, the PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. Our patent strategy is designed to provide a balance between the need for coverage in our strategic markets and the need to maintain costs at a reasonable level.
 
 As of December 31, 2017, we had 20 issued patents and numerous pending applications in the United States. These patents carry expiration dates from 2018 through 2027. Many of the US patents and applications have also been filed internationally, in one or more of the European Union, PRC, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.
 
 Specifically, we own patents in wafer cleaning, electro-polishing and plating, wafer preparation, and other semiconductor processing technologies.
 
 We currently manufacture advanced single-wafer cleaning systems equipped with our SAPS and TEBO technologies. Our wafer cleaning technologies are protected by US Patent Numbers 8580042, 8671961, 9070723 and 9281177, as well as their corresponding international patents. We have 22 patents granted internationally protecting our SAPS technologies. We also have filed four international patent applications for key TEBO technologies in accordance with the Patent Cooperation Treaty, in anticipation of filing in the U.S. national phase.
 
 In addition to the above core technologies, we have patents reflecting innovations in other aspects of wafer cleaning systems, such as cleaning solution recycling and wafer holding and positioning. During a wafer cleaning cycle, multiple cleaning solutions may be sequentially used. Our cleaning solution recycling technology prevents cross-contamination and allows recycling of the cleaning solutions. These innovations are protected by US Patent Numbers 6248222, 6495007, 6749728, 6726823, 6447668 and 7136173, as well as their corresponding international patents.
 
  
20





 We have technologies for stress-free polishing, or SFP, and electrochemical plating, or ECP, that are used in certain of our tools. SFP is an integral part of the CMP process. Our technology was a breakthrough in electro-chemical-copper-planarization technology when it was first introduced, because it can polish, stress-free, oxidizing tantalum barrier layers used in copper low-K interconnects. Our innovations in SFP and ECP are reflected in US Patent Numbers 6395152, 6837984, 6440295, 6638863, 6391166 and 8518224, and their corresponding international counterparts.
 
 We also have technologies in other semiconductor processing areas, such as wafer preparation and some specific processing steps. The wafer preparation technology is covered by US Patent Numbers 8383429 and 9295167. The specific processing steps include US Patent Number 7119008 titled “Integrating metal layers with ultra-low-K dielectrics,” and US Patent Number 8598039 titled “Barrier layer removal method and apparatus.”
 
 To date we have not granted licenses to third parties under the patents described above. Not all of these patents have been implemented in products. We may enter into licensing or cross-licensing arrangements with other companies in the future.
 
 We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications. Any rights granted under any of our existing or future patents may not provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. With respect to our other proprietary rights, it may be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology or marks without authorization or to develop similar technology independently.
 
 The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may in the future initiate litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers or to protect our trade secrets.
  
 Our customers could become the target of litigation relating to the patent or other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our customer agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages related to claims of patent infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We do not have any insurance coverage for intellectual property infringement claims for which we may be obligated to provide indemnification.
 
 Additional information about the risks relating to our intellectual property is provided under “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property.”
  
  Competition
 
 The chip equipment industry is characterized by rapid change and is highly competitive throughout the world. We compete with semiconductor equipment companies located around the world, and we may also face competition from new and emerging companies, including new competitors from the PRC. We consider our principal competitors to be those companies that provide single-wafer cleaning products to the market, including Lam Research Corp., DNS Electronics LLC, Tokyo Electron Ltd., SEMES Co. Ltd., Mujin Electronics Co., Ltd. and Beijing Sevenstar Science & Technology Co., Ltd.
 
  
21





 Compared to our company, our current and potential competitors may have:
 
  ● 
 better established credibility and market reputations, longer operating histories, and broader product offerings;


  ● 
 significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which may allow them to pursue design, development, manufacturing, sales, marketing, distribution and service support of their products;


  ● 
 more extensive customer and partner relationships, which may position them to identify and respond more successfully to market developments and changes in customer demands; and


  ● 
 multiple product offerings, which may enable them to offer bundled discounts for customers purchasing multiple products or other incentives that we cannot match or offer.


 The principal competitive factors in our market include:
 
  ● 
 performance of products, including particle removal efficiency, rate of damage to wafer structures, high temperature chemistry, throughput, tool uptime and reliability, safety, chemical waste treatment, and environmental impact;


  ● 
 service support capability and spare parts delivery time;

 
  ● 
 innovation and development of functionality and features that are must-haves for advanced fabrication nodes;


  ● 
 ability to anticipate customer requirements, especially for advanced process nodes of less than 45nm;


  ● 
 ability to identify new process applications;


  ● 
 brand recognition and reputation; and


  ● 
 skill and capability of personnel, including design engineers, manufacturing engineers and technicians, application engineers, and service engineers.


 In addition, semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new equipment into semiconductor production lines. Some manufacturers have announced they will fabricate chips for the 10nm node beginning in 2017 and the 7nm node commencing in 2018, and we have one customer that currently is evaluating implementation of our equipment for both the 10nm and 7nm nodes. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular supplier’s equipment and qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that selection for that specific production application and technology node as long as the supplier’s products demonstrate performance to specification in the installed base. Accordingly, we may experience difficulty in selling to a given manufacturer if that manufacturer has qualified a competitor’s equipment. If, however, that cleaning equipment constrains chip yield, we expect, based on our experience to date, that the manufacturer will evaluate implementing new equipment that cleans more effectively.
 
 We focus on the high-end fabrication market with advanced nodes, and we believe we compete favorably with respect to the factors described above. Most of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products using jet spray technology, which has relatively poor particle removal efficiency for random defects less than 30nm in size and presents increased risk of damage to the fragile patterned architectures of wafers at advanced process nodes. Certain of our competitors offer single-wafer cleaning products with megasonic cleaning capability, but we believe these products, which use conventional megasonic technology, are unable to maintain energy dose uniformity on the entire wafer and often lack the ability to repeat the requisite uniform energy dose wafer to wafer in production, resulting in poor efficiency in removing random defects, longer processing time and greater loss of material. In addition, these conventional megasonic products generate transient cavitation, which results in more incidents of damage to wafer structures with feature sizes of 70nm or less. We design our cleaning tools equipped with our proprietary SAPS and TEBO technologies, which we believe offer better performance, including at advanced process nodes of 22nm or less. Moreover, with our operations based in Shanghai, we are well positioned to take advantage of the Chinese government’s policies to develop an independent domestic semiconductor supply chain.
  
   
22



 
 
 
  Employees
 
 As of December 31 2017, we had 191 full-time equivalent employees, of whom 22 were in administration, 50 were in manufacturing, 80 were in research and development, and 39 were in sales and marketing and customer services. Of these employees, 183 were located in the PRC, 4 were located in Korea and 4 were based in the United States.
 
 We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization or subject to any collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good.
  
