Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
Overview
 
Our mission is to provide simple useful services that help people unlock the power of the Internet.
 
We accomplish this by reducing the complexity our customers’ experience as they access the Internet (at home or on the go) and while using Internet services such as domain name registration, email and other Internet services. We are organized, managed and report our financial results as two segments, Network Access Services and Domain Services, which are differentiated primarily by their services, the markets they serve and the regulatory environments in which they operate.
 
Our management regularly reviews our operating results on a consolidated basis, principally to make decisions about how we utilize our resources and to measure our consolidated operating performance. To assist us in forecasting growth and to help us monitor the effectiveness of our operational strategies, our management regularly reviews revenue for each of our service offerings in order to gain more depth and understanding of the key business metrics driving our business. Accordingly, we report Network Access Services and Domain Services revenue separately.
 
Network Access Services
 
Network Access Services includes mobile, fixed high-speed Internet access services, Internet hosting and network consulting services.
 
Our primary mobile service offering is mainly distributed through the Ting website and to a lesser extent certain third-party retail stores and on-line retailers. We generate revenues from the sale of retail telephony services, mobile phone hardware and related accessories (“Ting Mobile”) to individuals and small businesses through the Ting website. Ting Mobile’s primary focus is providing simple and easy to use services, including simple value pricing, in particular for multi-line accounts, and superior customer care. On September 19, 2017, the Company acquired the consumer related assets of Otono, Networks Inc. The consumer assets relate to the mobile roaming and instant activation eSIM business under the Roam Mobility, Zipsim and Always Online Wireless brands (collectively “Roam Mobility brands”). The acquired portfolio operates as a MVNO on the same nationwide Global System for Mobile communications (“GSM”) network as Ting Mobile and distributes through third-party retail stores and product branded websites.
 
The Company also derives revenue from the sale of fixed high-speed Internet access (“Ting Internet”) in select towns including Holly Springs, North Carolina; Westminster, Maryland; and Charlottesville, Virginia. Our primarily sales channel of Ting Internet is through the Ting website. The primary focus of Ting Internet is to provide reliable Gigabit Internet services to consumer and business customers. We also derive revenue from providing Internet hosting and network consulting services to business customers in Central Virginia through our acquisition of a 70% share in Ting Virginia, LLC on February 27, 2015, which was increased to a 90% interest in February 2017. On February 13, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with the Minority Shareholders of Ting Virginia, LLC pursuant to which the Minority Shareholders could immediately exercise their put option to sell their remaining 10% ownership interest in Ting Virginia, LLC for $1.2 million.  The put option was simultaneously exercised and the Company paid $1.2 million for the remaining 10% ownership interest and Ting Virginia, LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
 
Revenues from Ting Mobile and Ting Internet are generated in the United States and are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term. Revenues from Roam Mobility are generated in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom on a prepaid usage basis with no fixed contract terms.
 
 3


Domain Services
 
Domain Services includes wholesale and retail domain name registration services, value added services and portfolio services derived through our OpenSRS, eNom and Hover brands. We earn revenues primarily from the registration fees charged to resellers in connection with new, renewed and transferred domain name registrations. In addition, we earn revenues from the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses; and by making our portfolio of domain names available for sale or lease. Domain Services revenues are attributed to the country in which the contract originates, primarily Canada and the United States. The Company acquired eNom, Incorporated (“eNom”), a domain registration wholesale and retail company, from Rightside Group, Ltd, on January 20, 2017. Please see “Note 3 – Acquisitions” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.
 
Our primary distribution channel is a global network of approximately 39,000 resellers that operate in over 150 countries and who typically provide their customers, the end-users of Internet-based services, with solutions for establishing and maintaining an online presence. The increase in our reseller network during the year from 13,000 resellers resulted from our acquisition of eNom. Our primary focus is serving the needs of this network of resellers by providing the broadest portfolio of gTLD and the country code top-level domain (“ccTLD”) options and related services, a white-label platform that facilitates the provisioning and management of domain names, a powerful Application Program Interface (API), easy-to-use interfaces, comprehensive management and reporting tools, and proactive and attentive customer service. Our services are integral to the solutions that our resellers deliver to their customers. We provide “second tier” support to our resellers by email, chat and phone in the event resellers experience issues or problems with our services. In addition, our Network Operating Center proactively monitors all services and network infrastructure to address deficiencies before customer services are impacted. 
 
We believe that the underlying platforms for our services are among the most mature, reliable and functional reseller-oriented provisioning and management platforms in our industry, and we continue to refine, evolve and improve these services for both resellers and end-users. Our business model is characterized primarily by non-refundable, up-front payments, which lead to recurring revenue and positive operating cash flow.
  
Wholesale, primarily branded as OpenSRS and eNom, derives revenue from its Domain Service and from providing Value-Added Services. The OpenSRS and eNom Domain Services manage 28 million domain names under the Tucows and eNom ICANN registrar accreditations and for other registrars under their own accreditations. In January 2018, the Company completed a bulk transfer of 2.65 million names for domain names under management related to Namecheap as more fully described in “Note 17 – Subsequent events” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Value-Added Services include hosted email which provides email delivery and webmail access to millions of mailboxes, Internet security services, publishing tools and other value-added services. All of these services are made available to end-users through a network of 39,000 web hosts, Internet service providers (“ISPs”), and other resellers around the world. In addition, we also derive revenue by monetizing domain names which are near the end of their lifecycle through advertising revenue or auction sale. 
  
Retail, primarily the Hover and eNom portfolio of websites, including eNom, eNom Central and Bulkregister, derive revenues from the sale of domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses. Retail also includes our Personal Names Service – based on over 36,000 surname domains – that allows roughly two-thirds of Americans to purchase an email address based on their last name. 
 
Portfolio generates revenue by offering names in our domain portfolio for resale through a number of distribution channels including our reseller network. We also generate advertising revenue from our portfolio. 
 
Additional information about segments can be found in “Note 16 – Segment Reporting” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.
 
 4


Net Revenues
 
Network Access Services
 
Mobile Service
 
We derive revenue from Ting Mobile’s sale of retail mobile phones, accessories and services to individuals and small businesses nationally. Revenues are generated primarily through the Ting website with telephony services charged on a monthly post-paid basis with no fixed contract term, with a significant portion of our customers having multiple devices on their accounts. For the mobile roaming and instant activation eSIM business under the Roam Mobility brands, we derive revenue from the sale of SIM cards with prepaid usage as well as pay-as-you-go usage sold through third-party retail stores and product branded websites.
Fixed high-speed Internet Service
 
The Company also derives revenue from the sale of Ting Internet in select towns including Holly Springs, North Carolina; Westminster, Maryland; and Charlottesville, Virginia. Our primarily sales channel of Ting Internet is through the Ting website with revenues generated from fixed monthly access charges with a primary focus on the 1 GB unlimited data usage package. Services are provided on a monthly basis with no fixed contract term.  Revenue from hardware and installation is recognized at time of delivery. We also derive revenue from providing Internet hosting and network consulting services to business customers in Central Virginia through our acquisition of a 70% share in Ting Virginia, LLC on February 27, 2015, which was increased to a 90% interest in February 2017. On February 13, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with the Minority Shareholders of Ting Virginia, LLC pursuant to which the Minority Shareholders could immediately exercise their put option to sell their remaining 10% ownership interest in Ting Virginia, LLC for $1.2 million.  The put option was simultaneously exercised and the Company paid $1.2 million for the remaining 10% ownership interest and Ting Virginia, LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Domain Services
 
Wholesale 
 
Historically, our wholesale OpenSRS Domain Service has constituted the largest portion of our business and encompasses all of our services as an accredited registrar related to the registration, renewal, transfer and management of domain names. In addition, this service fuels other revenue categories as it often is the initial service for which a reseller will engage us, enabling us to follow on with other services and allowing us to add to our portfolio by purchasing names registered through us upon their expiration. With the acquisition of eNom and its 26,000 reseller network, domain services will continue to be the largest portion of our business and will further fuel our ability sell add-on services. 
 
We receive revenues for each domain registration or other Internet service processed through our systems by Service Providers.
 
With respect to the sale of domain registrations, we earn registration fees in connection with each new, renewed and transferred-in registration and from providing provisioning services to Service Providers and registrars on a monthly basis. Domain registrations are generally purchased for terms of one to ten years. Payments for the full term of all services, or billed revenue, are received at the time of activation of service and where appropriate are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as earned ratably over the term of provision of service. This accounting treatment reasonably approximates a recognition pattern that corresponds with the provision of the services during the quarters and the year.
 
Wholesale –Value-Added Services
 
We derive revenue from our hosted email service through our global distribution network. Our hosted email service is offered on a per account, per month basis, and provides resellers with a reliable, scalable “white label” hosted email solution that can be customized to their branding and business model requirements. The hosted email service also includes spam and virus filtering on all accounts. End-users can access the hosted email service via a full-featured, multi-language web interface or through traditional desktop email clients, such as Microsoft Outlook or Apple Mail, using IMAP or POP/SMTP.
 
 5


We also derive revenue from other Value-Added Services primarily from provisioning SSL certificates. In addition, we derive revenue from the bulk sale of domain names and advertising from the OpenSRS and eNom domain expiry stream.
 
In addition, we provide billing, provisioning and customer care software solutions to ISPs through our Platypus billing software.
 
Retail 
 
We derive revenues from Hover and eNom’s retail properties through the sale of retail domain name registration and email services to individuals and small businesses.
 
Portfolio
 
We derive revenue from our portfolio of domain names by displaying advertising on the domains and by making them available for sale or lease. When a user types one of these domain names into a web browser, they are presented with dynamically generated links that are pay-per-click advertising. Every time a user clicks on one of these links, it generates revenue for us through our partnership with third-parties who provide syndicated pay-per-click advertising (“parked page vendors”).
 
Our parked page vendor relationships may not continue to generate levels of revenue commensurate with what we have achieved during past periods. Our ability to generate online advertising revenue from parked page vendors depends on their advertising networks' assessment of the quality and performance characteristics of Internet traffic resulting from online advertisements rendered on their websites. We have no control over any of these quality assessments. Parked page vendors may from time to time change their existing, or establish new, methodologies and metrics for valuing the quality of Internet traffic and delivering pay-per-click advertisements. Any changes in these methodologies, metrics and advertising technology platforms could decrease the amount of revenue that we generate from online advertisements. In addition, parked page vendors may at any time change the nature of the service or suspend the service that they provide to online advertisers. These types of changes or suspensions would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue from pay-per-click advertising.
 
Portfolio names are sold through our premium domain name service, auctions, or in negotiated sales. The size of our domain name portfolio varies over time, as we acquire and sell domains on a regular basis to maximize the overall value and revenue generation potential of our portfolio. In evaluating names for sale, we consider the potential foregone revenue from pay-per-click advertising, as well as other factors. The name will be offered for sale if, based on our evaluation, the name is deemed non-essential to our business and management believes that deriving proceeds from the sale is strategically more beneficial to the Company. 
 
Portfolio names that have been acquired from third-parties or through acquisition are included as intangible assets with indefinite lives on our consolidated balance sheet.
 
For information about geographic areas, see “Note 16 – Segment Reporting” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report
 
Intellectual Property
 
We believe that we are well positioned in the wholesale domain registration and email markets due in part to our highly-recognized “Tucows”, “OpenSRS” and “eNom” brands and the respect they confer on us as a defender of end-user rights and reseller-friendly approaches to doing business. We were among the first group of 34 registrars to be accredited by ICANN in 1999, and we remain active in Internet governance issues.
 
Our success and ability to compete depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our brand name and technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights.
 
 6


We have registered the Tucows trademark in the United States, Canada and the European Union and we register additional service marks and trademarks as appropriate and where such protection is available.
 
We seek to limit disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring all employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to commit to confidentiality, non-disclosure and work-for-hire agreements. All of our employees are required to sign confidentiality and non-use agreements, which provide that any rights they may have in copyrightable works or patentable technologies accrue to us. Before entering into discussions with potential vendors and partners about our business and technologies, we require them to enter into a non-disclosure agreement. If these discussions result in a license or other business relationship, we also generally require that the agreement containing the parties’ rights and obligations include provisions for the protection of its intellectual property rights.
 
Customers
 
The majority of the customers to whom we provide reseller services are generally either web hosts or ISPs. A small number of customers are consultants and designers providing our services to their business clients. Both our Retail Domain Services and our Network Access Services customers are a very broad mix of consumers, small businesses and corporations.
 
No customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.
 
While web hosts and ISPs are capitalizing on the growth in Internet usage and the demand for new services, they also face significant competition from numerous other service providers with competitive or comparable offerings. This has led such web hosts and ISPs to focus on core competencies. As such resellers are increasingly seeking to outsource non-core services. Outsourcing enables these resellers to better focus on customer acquisition and retention efforts by eliminating the need to own, develop and support non-core applications in-house.
  
Seasonality
 
During the summer months and certain other times of the year, such as major holidays, Internet usage often declines. As a result, many of our services (OpenSRS, eNom Hover, Ting and Roam Mobility) may experience reduced demand during these times. For example, our experience shows that new domain registrations decline during the summer months and around the year-end holidays. Seasonality may also affect advertising, which may have a slight impact on advertisement-based revenue. These seasonal effects could cause fluctuations in our financial results. For Ting Mobile, we see increased gross activation and churn activity in late summer as part of back-to-school activities as well as the holiday season in December. For Roam Mobility, we see increased roaming sales as consumers travel to warmer regions of the United Sates for extended periods of time.
Competition
 
Our competitors may be divided into the following groups:
 

• | US Mobile Phone Service providers such as AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint, who primarily compete with Ting Mobile Services.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | US Broadband providers such as Comcast, Verizon and CenturyLink, who primarily compete with Ting Internet Services.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Retail-oriented domain registrars, such as GoDaddy and Web.com who compete with our Reseller customers in Wholesale Domain Services and with Hover.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Wholesale-oriented domain registrars, such as GoDaddy, who market services to resellers such as our customers.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Wholesale Email Service providers, such as Google, Microsoft, Bluetie and MailTrust.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
 7


We expect to continue to experience significant competition from the competitors identified above and, as our business continues to develop, we expect to encounter competition from other providers. Service providers, Internet portals, web hosting companies, email hosting companies, outsourced application companies, country code registries and major telecommunication firms may broaden their services to include services we offer.
 
We believe the primary competitive factors in our Network Access Services are:
 

• | Providing a superior customer service experience
--+-------------------------------------------------


• | Providing a simple and friendly user experience through more usable web and application interfaces and more fair and transparent pricing;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Being agnostic on telephony and internet hardware, including phones and network routers; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Providing superior technology, speed and reliability with fiber to the home services.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
We believe the primary competitive factors in our Domain Services are:
 

• | Providing superior customer service by anticipating the technical requirements and business objectives of resellers and providing them with technical advice to help them understand how our services can be customized to meet their particular needs;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Providing cost savings over in-house solutions by relieving resellers of the expense of acquiring and maintaining hardware and software and the associated administrative burden;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Enabling resellers to better manage their relationships with their end-users;
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Facilitating scalability through an infrastructure designed to support millions of transactions across millions of end-users; and
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Providing superior technology and infrastructure, consisting of industry-leading software and hardware that allow resellers to provide these services to their customers without having to make substantial investments in their own software or hardware.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
Although we encounter pricing pressure in many markets in which we compete, we believe the effects of that pressure are mitigated by the fact that we deliver a high degree of value to our customers through our business and technical practices. We believe our status as a trusted supplier also allows us to mitigate the effects of this type of competition. We believe that the long-term relationships we have made with many customers results in a sense of certainty that would not be available to those customers through a competitor.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 558 full-time employees. None of our employees are currently represented by a labor union. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.
Corporate Information
 
Our principal place of business is located in Canada.
 
We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in November 1992 under the name Infonautics, Inc. In August 2001, we completed our acquisition of Tucows Inc., a Delaware corporation, and we changed our name from Infonautics, Inc. to Tucows Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 96 Mowat Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, M6K 3M1 Canada. Our telephone number is (416) 535-0123. We also have offices in Germany and the United States of America.
 
 8


The public may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically at http://sec.gov. 
 
Our web site address is tucows.com. We make available through our web site, free of charge, copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The information on the web site listed above is not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by reference in this document.
 
Executive Officers and Key Employees of the Registrant
 
The following table sets forth the names, ages and titles of persons currently serving as our executive officers and key employees.
 

Name | Age | Title 
------------------+-----+--------------------------------------
Elliot Noss | 55 | President and Chief Executive Officer
Davinder Singh | 43 | Chief Financial Officer 
David Woroch | 55 | Executive Vice President, Domains 
Bret Fausett | 54 | Chief Legal Officer 
Hanno Liem | 44 | Chief Technology Officer 
Jason Silverstein | 44 | Vice President, Corporate Operations 
Jessica Johannson | 45 | Vice President, Human Resources 
Michael Goldstein | 46 | Vice President, Sales and Marketing 
Ross Rader | 46 | Vice President, Customer Experience 

 
Elliot Noss has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since May 1999 and served as Vice President of Corporate Services for Tucows Interactive Limited, which was acquired by Tucows in May 1999, from April 1997 to May 1999.
 
Davinder Singh has served as our Chief Financial Officer since April 2017, having previously served as Vice President Finance since joining the Company in February 2016. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Singh spent eight years at KPMG LLP primarily focusing on public company audits in the technology field. After leaving KPMG LLP, Mr. Singh joined TELUS Communications (“TELUS”) and held progressive roles, including Chief Financial Officer of TELUS International, TELUS’ outsourcing division. Mr. Singh is a Chartered Professional Accountant with the Institute of Chartered Professional Accountants of British Columbia.
 
David Woroch has served as our Executive Vice President, Domains since 2014 and he oversees the Domains business at Tucows, including OpenSRS, eNom and EPAG (wholesale), Hover (retail) and the premium domain portfolio. Mr. Woroch joined Tucows in March 2000 after thirteen years at IBM and has helped build Tucows’ sales, marketing, business development, product management and technical support capabilities. 
 
Bret Fausett joined Tucows in September 2017 as our Chief Legal Officer. Prior to joining Tucows, Mr. Fausett worked for Uniregistry, where he had served as General Counsel for six years. Prior to Uniregistry, Mr. Fausett worked as outside legal counsel to a number of domain industry related companies. 
 
Hanno Liem joined Tucows in January 2018 as our Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining Tucows, Mr. Liem worked for Rakuten Kobo since 2012 where he served as their Vice President of Global Operations focused on site operations and engineering.
 
 9


Jason Silverstein joined Tucows in January 2017 as our Vice President, Corporate Operations in connection with the acquisition of eNom, where served as its General Manager as well as Vice President of Product and Engineering for Rightside Group, Ltd. since July 2015. Prior to Rightside Group, Ltd., Mr. Silverstein served in similar business technology leadership roles within companies such as the NBA, Yahoo!, multiple media companies and two start-ups co-founded by him. 
Jessica Johannson has served as our Vice President of Human Resources since January 2017. Prior to joining Tucows, Ms. Johannson held executive level HR roles at Johnson Controls Inc since 2008, Brookfield Renewable Energy Group and Capgemini. 
 
Michael Goldstein has served as our Vice President, Sales and Marketing since September 2009. Before joining us, Mr. Goldstein spent five years at Ogilvy, NY as a Partner, Marketing Director managing advertising, brand identity, digital and public relations campaigns for clients such as TD Ameritrade, Kraft, GlaxoSmithKline and DoubleClick.
 
Ross Rader has served as Vice President, Customer Experience since 2012, he leads our customer service and support organization. In 2000, as our Director of Assigned Names, Ross helped launch Tucows OpenSRS service. In 2005, as General Manager, Retail Services he oversaw Tucows’ retail domain operations, including the development and launch of Hover in 2008. 
 
 10


