Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. 
Business.
 This business description should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”), which are incorporated herein by this reference.
Company Overview
 Cogint, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “cogint,” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation, is a data and analytics company providing cloud-based mission-critical information and performance marketing solutions to enterprises in a variety of industries. cogint’s mission is to transform data into intelligence utilizing our proprietary technology platforms to solve complex problems for our clients. Harnessing the power of data fusion and powerful analytics, we transform data into intelligence, in a fast and efficient manner, so that our clients can spend their time on what matters most, running their organizations with confidence. Through our intelligent platforms, CORETM and Agile Audience EngineTM, we uncover the relevance of disparate data points to deliver end-to-end, ROI-driven results for our customers. Our analytical capabilities enable us to build comprehensive datasets in real-time and provide insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business, from managing risk, identifying fraud and abuse, ensuring legislative compliance, and debt recovery, to identifying and acquiring new customers. With the goal of reducing the cost of doing business and enhancing the consumer experience, our solutions enable our clients to optimize overall decision-making and to have a holistic view of their customers.
 We provide unique and compelling solutions essential to the daily workflow of organizations within both the public and private sectors. Our cloud-based data fusion and customer acquisition technology platforms, combined with our massive database consisting of public-record, proprietary and publicly-available data, as well as a unique repository of self-reported information on millions of consumers, enables the delivery of differentiated products and solutions used for a variety of essential functions. These essential functions include identification and authentication, investigation and validation, and customer acquisition and retention.
 The Company operates through two reportable segments: (i) Information Services and (ii) Performance Marketing. For financial information relating to our segments and by geographic areas, see Note 15, “Segment information” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Information Services—Leveraging leading-edge technology, proprietary algorithms, and massive datasets, and through intuitive and powerful analytical applications, we provide solutions to organizations within the risk management and consumer marketing industries. CORE is our next generation data fusion platform, providing mission-critical information about individuals, businesses and assets to a variety of markets and industries. Through machine learning and advanced analytics, our Information Services segment uses the power of data fusion to ingest and analyze data at a massive scale. The derived information from the data fusion process ultimately serves to generate unique solutions for banking and financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, the collection industry, law firms, retail, telecommunications companies, corporate security and investigative firms. In addition, our data acquisition solutions enable clients to rapidly grow their customer databases by using self-declared consumer insights to identify, connect with, and acquire first-party consumer data and multi-channel marketing consent at massive scale.
 Built in a secure Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliant environment, our cloud-based next generation technology delivers greater than four 9s of service uptime. By leveraging our proprietary infrastructure design within the cloud, we currently operate in six datacenters spread geographically across the U.S. and are able to dynamically and seamlessly scale as needed. Using our intelligent framework and leveraging a micro services architecture where appropriate, we reduce operational cost and complexity, thus delivering superior performance at greatly reduced costs compared to traditional datacenter architectures. Since the release of our CORE platform in May 2016, we have added billions of data records and continue to add approximately over a billion records per month on average. Our average query response time for a comprehensive profile is less than 250 milliseconds versus competitive platforms that measure comprehensive profile response times in seconds.
 Performance Marketing—Our Agile Audience Engine drives our Performance Marketing segment, which provides solutions to help brands, advertisers and marketers find the right customers in every major business-to-consumer (B2C) vertical, including internet and telecommunications, financial services, health and wellness, consumer packaged goods, career and education, and retail and entertainment. We deterministically target consumers across various marketing channels and devices, through the user- supplied acquisition of personally identifiable information on behalf of our clients, such as email addresses, other identifying information and 
 1


responses to dynamically-populated survey questions. Additionally, 80% of our consumer interaction comes from mobile, a highly-differentiated characteristic compared to our competitors whose platforms are not mobile-first.
 We own hundreds of media properties, through which we engage millions of consumers everyday with interactive content, such as job postings, cost savings, surveys, promotions and sweepstakes that generate on average over 850,000 consumer registrations and over 8.8 million compiled survey responses daily, with a record high of over 1.0 million registrations and over 10.3 million compiled survey responses in a single day. Our owned media properties alone have created a database of approximately 150 million U.S. adults with detailed profiles, including 224 million unique email addresses, across over 75 million households. With meaningful, people-based interaction that focuses on consumer behavior and declared first-party data, leveraged on a mobile-centric platform that provides seamless omni-channel capabilities, we have the ability to target and develop comprehensive consumer profiles that redefine the way advertisers view their most valuable customers.
 For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had revenue of $220.3 million, $186.8 million, and $14.1 million, net loss attributable to cogint of $53.2 million, $29.1 million and $84.5 million, and adjusted EBITDA of $24.2 million, $15.0 million, and negative $6.6 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure based on US GAAP, adding back net loss from discontinued operations, interest expense, income tax benefit, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, and other adjustments, as noted in the tables included in “Use and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
 Our Markets
 The target markets for our data and analytical solutions today consist primarily of businesses within the risk management and consumer marketing industries.
 International Data Corporation, a global provider of market intelligence and advisory services, estimates that worldwide revenue for big data and business analytics services will be $150.8 billion in 2017 and is expected to be more than $210.0 billion in the year 2020, representing a CAGR of 11.9% from 2017 through 2020. The big data and analytics sector continues to grow at an accelerated pace due to the proliferation of data generated by technological advancements and changing consumer behavior. Continued, rapid adoption and use of smartphones and other mobile devices, social media and online purchasing channels, and the necessity of organizations to sort through this sea of data to glean actionable intelligence to support their daily operations, serve as key drivers of the sector’s growth.
 Risk management and fraud analytics has become increasingly important not only in the banking and financial services sectors but across multiple other industries and use cases. According to the market research company MarketsAndMarkets, the risk analytics software market is projected to grow from $17.6 billion in 2017, with North America estimated to hold the largest market share in the risk analytics market, to $35.9 billion by 2022, owing to unprecedented growth of data in the region driven by the increasing adoption of mobile and Internet of Things technologies and the direct presence of major risk analytics vendors. Data fusion analytics and the information derived therefrom is now the primary service product for risk management associated with key purchasers such as banking and financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, collection agencies, law firms, retail, telecommunications companies and private investigative firms. Primary use cases include, but are not limited to, obtaining information on consumers, businesses and assets (and their interrelationships) to facilitate the location of individuals and assets, identity verification, and to support criminal, legal, financial, insurance, and corporate investigations, due diligence and the assessment of counterparty risk.
 According to the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB)’s “Internet Advertising Revenue Report, 2017 first six months results,” total digital ad spend in the U.S. was $40.1 billion for the first six months of 2017, a 22.6% increase over the first six months of 2016. Mobile was the leading ad format accounting for 54% of revenue, and performance-based advertising was the leading pricing model accounting for 65% of total U.S. digital advertising spending.
 Consumer marketing, which consists of paid advertising, public relations, sales strategy, customer communications and market research, is a multi-trillion-dollar global industry. Digital marketing is the fastest growing subset of this marketplace, with performance marketing being the most dominant format utilized across the industry. Advertisers prefer performance marketing because they only pay when specific actions are completed by consumers in response to their ads, such as making purchases, filling out information request forms, or clicking through to websites. In addition, performance marketing campaigns that target registered and validated consumers are referred to as “people-based” marketing campaigns, and are gaining favor over cookie-based campaigns which target anonymous site visitors. People-based performance marketing campaigns improve the effectiveness of advertising, increase return on ad spend, and facilitate the deterministic targeting of consumers across digital channels such as display, social, search, video and addressable television.
 2


According to eMarketer’s, a leading market research company, worldwide spend on paid media will increase to $584.1 billion in 2017 and is expected to grow to $757.4 billion by 2021, representing a CAGR of 6.7%. Although growth will vary by region, North America is projected to remain the number one advertising region in the world.
 Companies in all industries are inundated with data sourced from a growing number of digital mediums including e-commerce, mobile and social media, which provide new information on a daily basis. Companies struggle to parse through the data available to them to make decisions in real-time that improve scale and efficiency while helping them achieve and exceed their strategic goals. Our platform, solutions, and analytical capabilities directly address these issues in an industry-agnostic manner to solve complex problems in a robust and growing marketplace.
 Key Challenges Facing our Customers
 We believe our products and solutions address the challenges that the industry faces today, which include:
 Actionable Big Data Insights Through A Single Platform— As the velocity and volume of data continues to grow exponentially, enterprises have become overwhelmed with data and their inability to glean intelligence from such data to derive successful business decisions in real-time. Customers demand full-suite, turn-key solutions that are agile, flexible, and available on-demand in order to gain the speed, scale and insight necessary to drive their business models. As the breadth and depth of data increases, providers will need to deploy new technologies that enable both the ingestion of data at massive scale in real-time, irrespective of structure or form, and the analytics components necessary to function across multiple channels. The continued digitization of human interactions, and the corresponding availability of the data resulting therefrom, is driving demand for data capture, management and analysis software. As a result, customers are looking for flexible and efficient solutions to fuse disparate sets of not only transactional data but also demographic, ethnographic and behavioral data as well, in order to provide insights that are truly actionable.
 Engaging Customers Across All Devices—According to the IAB, mobile advertising in the U.S. totaled $21.7 billion for the first half of 2017, a 40% increase from first half 2016. This impressive growth demonstrates to advertisers the importance of mobile interaction as they search for ways to engage consumers and effectively gather critical data. Developing capabilities to acquire data from all devices and creating omni-channel advertising campaigns are both costly and complex. Traditional cookie-based targeting has proven less effective as support for cookies on mobile devices is infrequent or non-existent, ushering in the need for newer approaches for reaching consumers across devices. Developing a full solution is complex and many offerings in the marketplace struggle to adequately address this growing need.
 Pricing Methodology—Historically, internet advertising has been sold on a cost-per-impression (CPM) model where an advertiser is charged each time an advertisement is displayed, regardless of user engagement with the advertisement. This dated methodology has made it difficult to truly gauge the effectiveness of advertising campaigns, and determine the actual costs associated with successful user engagement. Today’s advertising landscape now has several options for pricing advertisements, including the historical CPM method, as well as cost-per-click (CPC) which is most common in search advertising, cost-per-action (CPA), and hybrid models that may combine aspects of the various models. With chief marketing officers increasingly accountable for demonstrating concrete return on their marketing investments, CPA and CPC models are more favorable alternatives to CPM-based offerings.
 Cost and Performance Pressures—As our customers face constant cost pressures, they need to continually improve the value they receive from their information solutions. Whether it is right-party contact, managing risk, skip tracing or regulatory compliance, customers are increasingly more sophisticated, requiring enhanced performance that provides fast, accurate, and cost-effective solutions to satisfy their business objectives. Improving performance can mean delivering the right data at the right time, or providing the most intuitive information as rapidly as possible to capitalize on opportunities or reduce risk. Superior data fusion with unique data sources delivers customers an advantage as they cope with these pressures.
 Difficult Delivery of Solutions for Complex Problems and Data Analytics at Scale—The larger and more complex a campaign or dataset, the more difficult it is to sustain the same level of performance and insight. The highly-fragmented nature of the internet display landscape, proliferation of data and lack of robust technology limits the ability to target the correct users on the correct device at the correct time and on the correct portal. There is an inherent need for solutions that allow advertisers to deliver high-performing campaigns regardless of size and duration.
Our Competitive Strengths
 We believe our leading-edge technology platforms, massive database of holistic views of consumers, and dynamic and intuitive solutions deliver differentiated capabilities to our customers. Our solutions enable our customers to make more informed inquiries regarding their problems and better decisions to solve their most complex problems. We believe the following competitive strengths will continue to deliver an unrivaled value proposition that further drives our differentiation:
 3


Transformative and Innovative Technology Platforms—Through the convergence of our platforms, CORE and Agile Audience Engine, we offer a comprehensive suite of information solutions. Our cloud-based, data and industry agnostic platform, CORE, allows us to assimilate, structure, and fuse billions of disparate records to create comprehensive views of individuals and to present these views in real-time via analytical applications. We believe our platform’s speed, power, and scalability are key differentiators in the marketplace. Our Agile Audience Engine enables brands to target, engage, qualify, and communicate with relevant consumers across mobile, web and in-app content environments. Furthermore, we utilize proprietary targeting algorithms and a dynamic survey module to match consumers with the most relevant advertisers, content, and media across all devices. We optimize campaigns by leveraging each advertiser’s performance data. Most valuable customer profiles (MVCs), as determined by factors such as individual-level engagement with ads and/or conversion or purchasing histories, are used to fuel lookalike modeling enabling the targeting of individuals who share similar attributes to those MVCs. This results in broadening the scale of acquisition campaigns and enhancing campaign performance.
 Massive Database of Holistic Views of Consumers—Data is the lifeblood of our technology platforms. We leverage our CORE and Agile Audience Engine platforms to build massive proprietary datasets and apply analytics in real-time to provide actionable insights. Our Information Services data is compiled from a myriad of online and offline sources, both structured and unstructured, including public record data, publicly-available data, and proprietary data. Public record data includes personally identifiable information, as well as property, identity, bankruptcy, lien, judgment, automotive, phone and other information aggregated from companies specializing in data aggregation, public record repositories, and publicly-available sources. Proprietary data includes data internally generated by proprietary algorithms and analytic processes as well as data which is compiled through our owned media properties, including valuable self-reported consumer information collected through voluntary surveys, promotions and contests. Through next-generation machine learning technology and proprietary algorithms, we efficiently ingest these datasets, structure them into common form, and utilize the process of data fusion to connect or fuse the data so as to create an actionable, real-time view of the data for various use cases, delivering greater intelligence to our customers and enhancing their decision-making capabilities across all markets and industries.
 In addition, our technology platforms and systems enable us to collect four distinct types of user data:
  
• | Meta-data—information gleaned by the system such as the user’s IP address, browser type, operating system, and, for mobile connected devices, the device model, device ID, browser, and mobile carrier;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Demographic data—self-reported user information such as name, address, gender, email address and telephone number;
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Ethnographic data—user responses to dynamically curated and served survey questions; and,
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Behavioral data—purchase history, interests, likes and dislikes, preferences and frequencies.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 We also use our public record database and third-party services in order to verify and supplement collected data. This data is stored and analyzed, and can be further enhanced in real-time when consumers respond to dynamically populated survey questions, enabling precise targeting and profiling for ad serving and customer acquisition purposes. By using the system and the insights gained, we can develop deep and relevant insights into each individual consumer.
 Our platforms and user volume has enabled us to accumulate a massive, owned data warehouse, which contains:
  
• | First party data on over 150 million consumers;
--+------------------------------------------------


• | 224 million unique email addresses;
--+------------------------------------


• | 3.0 billion survey responses and growing by more than 8.8 million responses a day; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | More than 850,000 unique user registrations per day.
--+-----------------------------------------------------

 People-based Platform Enabling Deterministic, Omni-channel Marketing—Our collection of holistic information serves as the genesis for our operations and the key foundation to providing actionable consumer data.  Through our data-centric approach to analyzing consumer characteristics and intent, we are capable of producing highly-deterministic advertisements across multiple devices, including desktops, laptops, smartphones and tablets. By analyzing a consumer’s characteristics and integrating that data into our Agile Audience Engine, we are able to create comprehensive profiles that deliver highly-relevant and targeted advertisements on the most effective medium based on the consumer’s habits.
 Performance Driven Pricing Model that Drives Heightened Return-On-Investment—We recognize performance marketing revenue when the conversions are generated based on predefined user actions such as a click, a registration, an app install or a coupon print. As a result, our revenue is synonymous with customer success, and we only get paid when a user engages with our advertisements. By using a performance-driven pricing model, we enjoy a number of advantages, including increased efficiencies, the ability to exceed ROI projections for customers, and optimized marketing budget allocations limited only on our ability to deliver results. Our 
 4


performance-driven pricing model presents unique opportunities to work within uncapped marketing budgets which in turn create recurring revenue streams from clients who depend on our solutions. Many of our partners view our Performance Marketing solutions as cost of sales and are incentivized to continue utilizing our solutions that directly drive consumer engagement and revenue.
 Predictive Solutions For Complex Advertising Needs—Our proprietary, predictive software algorithm identifies, in real-time, consumers likely to be receptive to our customers’ advertisements, thereby focusing marketing spend on the most efficient and effective channel. Additionally, through targeting and optimization, we provide distinctive solutions that aim to serve the needs of our clients and provide them with the deepest insights possible, in order to make more informed decisions. Through our dynamic surveys, we are able to collect self-reported data from 850,000 consumers every day and learn valuable information that would otherwise be unavailable. This symbiotic relationship allows us to capture extremely timely and meaningful information that ultimately shapes the insights we create. Using this information, we are able to curate custom databases and audience clusters in real-time, layered with additional data from our Information Services segment to create a truly customized and unique dataset for our customers. We aim to fuse self-reported data with transactional public record data, in order to create the most comprehensive view of an individual or business. Our ability to capture as well as integrate data from these two sources allows us to establish a lasting competitive advantage. The marriage of these two complementary data sources in addition to our analytic capabilities is highly unique and differentiated in the market.
Our Platforms and Solutions
 cogint’s CORE and Agile Audience Engine platforms combine the best of both worlds to provide mission-critical information and performance marketing solutions. Our dynamic solutions provide unlimited potential to solve complex problems through customization, vast aggregation of data and ability to ingest any dataset. The marriage of our CORE and Agile Audience Engine platforms allows us to ingest, fuse, and customize datasets of self-reported, transactional and public record data. The exchange and fusion of data and capabilities across industry verticals equally benefit both our Information Services and Performance Marketing segments.

The Company’s operations are organized in two reportable segments: (i) Information Services and (ii) Performance Marketing.
 (i) Information Services—Leveraging leading-edge technology, proprietary algorithms, and massive datasets, and through intuitive and powerful analytical applications, we provide industry-agnostic analytical solutions for businesses within the risk management and consumer marketing industries. These businesses use our services to acquire new customers, identify cross-selling opportunities, collect debt, verify consumer identities, investigate fraud and abuse, mitigate risk, and to connect and analyze online, offline, customer and partner data to better know their customers. The core capabilities and technology systems in our Information Services segment allow us to serve multiple industries and solve a broad range of business issues. Solutions within our Information Services segment include:

• | CORE—our advanced analytical platform, providing cloud-based, mission-critical solutions to a variety of markets and industries. Our primary investigative solution, idiCORETM, provides instant, comprehensive views of individuals, businesses, assets and their interrelationships to multiple industries, including law enforcement, government, financial services, insurance, and corporate risk for purposes such as identity verification, risk assessment, fraud detection, and compliance.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 5


 
• | Data Acquisition Solutions—empowering clients to rapidly grow their customer databases by using self-declared consumer insights to identify, connect with, and acquire customer data and multi-channel marketing consent at massive scale.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 (ii) Performance Marketing—Provides solutions to help brands, advertisers and marketers find the right customers in every major B2C vertical, including internet and telecommunications, financial services, health and wellness, consumer packaged goods, careers and education, and retail and entertainment. We deterministically target consumers across various marketing channels and devices, through the user-supplied acquisition of personally identifiable information on behalf of our clients, such as email addresses, other identifying information and responses to dynamically populated survey questions. Solutions within our Performance Marketing segment include:

• | Audience Solutions—empowering clients to target their ads with precision and drive qualified prospects at scale. Marketers can leverage our proprietary media network or activate our first-party data across the digital ecosystem to drive traffic to their websites, only paying when consumers take specified actions.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Mobile User Acquisition Solutions—offers marketers the precision targeting capabilities of our Agile Audience Engine combined with unique mobile web media inventory to reach qualified audiences of consumers with the highest propensity to download mobile applications and become high lifetime value users.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Our Sales, Distribution and Marketing
 Inside Sales—Our inside sales team cultivates relationships, and ultimately closes business, with their end-user markets. These professionals are relationship-based sellers with experience in identifying clients’ needs and clearly explaining and defining products that provide solutions to those needs.
 Strategic Sales—While the majority of our direct sales efforts are supported through professional inside sales staff, major accounts within certain industries require a more personal, face-to-face sales approach. We continue to expand this team to meet the demand of the markets.
 Distributors, Resellers, and Strategic Partners—In conjunction with direct-to-client sales efforts, we engage value-added distributors, resellers, and strategic partners that have a significant foothold in many of the industries that we have not historically served, as well as to further penetrate those industries that we do serve. This allows us to rapidly penetrate these markets while also significantly reducing overhead associated with direct sales and support efforts.
 Marketing—We have implemented several methods to market our products, including participation in trade shows and seminars, advertising, public relations, distribution of sales literature and product specifications and ongoing communication with prospective clients, distributors, resellers, strategic partners and our installed base of current clients.
Our Strategy
 We are committed to developing unique technology and using our analytical capabilities to deliver solutions that transform the way organizations view data. We are advancing our business through a “three-prong,” strategic approach:

• | The Risk Management Industry—providing actionable intelligence in support of such use cases as the verification and authentication of consumer identities, due diligence, prevention of fraud and abuse, legislative compliance, and debt collection.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | The Consumer Marketing Industry—deploying advanced data analytics to better identify and segment consumers in support of highly-scalable, people-based marketing, resulting in increased customer acquisition and retention.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Custom Analytics—enabling the public and private sectors to leverage our advanced data fusion platform and analytical applications to obtain insight essential to decision-making processes throughout each client organization.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 We will remain focused on building the business organically and will continue to devote resources to the following to ensure that we are well positioned within the industry.
 Add New Customers and Verticals by Expanding Our Core Data Fusion Technology—We believe that our robust data fusion platform, highly-scalable systems and expansive user database affords us numerous opportunities to leverage our technology into the following areas:

• | Paid CRM—leverage our database to accelerate the retargeting of consumers in order to drive greater customer lifetime value (CLV) using paid media such as Google, Facebook, paid search, display and mobile platforms.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 6


 
• | Owned CRM—develop a robust strategy and products designed to retarget consumers and drive greater CLV leveraging to company-owned, higher-margin channels including permission-based email marketing, push notifications, text messaging and telephone marketing.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Data Products—monetize our proprietary data assets outside our own platform by delivering ad targeting and consumer insights solutions (e.g., development of custom audiences for targeting in specific verticals such as finance and insurance).
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Market Research—monetize our proprietary survey module by gathering consumer insights for B2C brands and marketing service providers. Surveys can be utilized for internal product strategy development as well as for external thought leadership (white papers, etc.)
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Continuous Advancement of Our Technology and Data to Cross-sell and Up-sell—We strongly believe that our ability to continually innovate and invest resources into our technology and data is a key foundation to our success. In addition to improving our predictive software and underlying technology platforms, we also aim to provide new solutions from our data repository in an effort to offer the greatest value to our clients. We believe this allocation of resources will augment our value proposition for both existing and prospective clients. As we invest in our technology platforms and data assets, we will always do so with a view towards providing solutions that deliver scalability, functionality and interoperability. Our technology platforms operate at significant scale and are programmed to functionally deliver reliable and accurate information through our machine learning algorithms whose performance accelerates with each new item of data about a user, creating a perpetual series of network effects. As a result of our ability to process transactional data, self-reported data, and other proprietary datasets at massive scale, we are focused on creating a dynamic platform that maximizes interoperability and continues to drive growth opportunities within our installed customer base.
 Expanding our Sales Team to Enter New International Markets—We intend to continue to grow our existing sales team. Increased sales capability will enable us to work with more direct advertisers, target specific industry verticals, and realize margin upside. Additionally, we believe that a larger sales force provides significant opportunities for us to grow in the U.S. market as well as enter and expand operations in new geographic markets, such as Europe and Asia.
 Selective Acquisitions—In addition to organic growth, we may, in the future, make acquisitions of businesses or technologies that advance our objectives and that enhance shareholder value. We are focused on identifying complementary technologies and businesses that advance our “three-prong” strategic approach. The acquisitions of Fluent, LLC (“Fluent”) in December 2015 and Q Interactive, LLC (“Q Interactive”) in June 2016 are examples of our entry into the consumer marketing industry while offering a multitude of beneficial synergies. These acquisitions provide greater diversity of customers, markets, products, and revenue generated therefrom, within the significantly larger addressable market of the consumer marketing industry. Further, these acquisitions present substantial revenue growth opportunities within the U.S. through new markets, cross-selling opportunities, the application of our data fusion technology to the consumer marketing industry, the enhancement of existing products and solutions, the development and commercialization of new products and solutions, and the increased aggregation and fusion of consumer data, including our massive first-party consumer database, creating more robust consumer profiles to be utilized for both risk management and consumer marketing, among other uses. While we maintain our long-term strategy of increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal development and organic growth, we will continually seek to identify and pursue acquisition opportunities that fit within our strategy.
 Grow Direct and Indirect Channels—Ownership of personally identifiable information including valid primary email addresses on over 90% of our consumer database facilitates the deterministic targeting of those consumers across multiple platforms and devices, extending our reach across email, mobile, display, search, social, and eventually addressable television. We intend to grow our owned media properties and increase our partnerships with third-party publishers to further our reach and scale in the market.
Our Competition
 Competition in the big data and analytics sector centers on innovation, product stability, pricing and customer service. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and is subject to constant change. We compete on the basis of differentiated solutions, analytical capabilities, integration with our clients’ technology, client relationships, service stability, innovation and price. We believe we are well-positioned to effectively compete on all fronts.
 In our Information Services segment, our competitors vary widely in size and nature of the products and services they offer. There are a large number of competitors who offer competing products and services in specialized areas, such as fraud prevention, risk management and decisioning solutions. We believe our next-generation data fusion technology, analytical capabilities, robust database, and intelligent design of our cloud-based infrastructure will allow us to differentiate ourselves from our competition in flexibility, capability, service and price.
 7


In our Performance Marketing segment, our traditional competitors have been database marketing services providers, online and traditional media companies, and advertising agencies. We believe the competitive landscape is changing and becoming more complex. We believe our ad-serving and data and customer acquisition technology platform enables our clients to better target, engage, qualify, and communicate with relevant consumers, in a more profitable manner, across mobile, web and in-app content environments than our competitors.
 Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, better name recognition and a larger customer base. Even if we introduce advanced products that meet evolving customer requirements in a timely manner, there can be no assurance that our new products will gain market acceptance.
 Certain companies in the big data and analytics sector have expanded their product lines or technologies in recent years as a result of acquisitions. Further, more companies have developed products which conform to existing and emerging industry standards and have sought to compete on the basis of price. We anticipate increased competition from large data and analytics vendors. Increased competition in the big data and analytics sector could result in significant price competition, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with current or new competitors.
 Concentration of Customers
 For the year ended December 31, 2017, there was no individual customer that accounted for more than 10% of the total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company recognized revenue from one major customer, accounting for 12% and 14% of the total consolidated revenue, respectively. Such customer, however, manages the ad platforms of leading search engines and represents a consortium of advertisers, which limits overall concentration risk. 
 As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, there was no individual customer that accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s accounts receivable, net.
 Our Intellectual Property
 We avail ourself of applicable trade secret and unfair competition laws to protect our proprietary technology, trademark law to protect our trademarks and domain names, and copyright laws to protect our content relating to, among other things, websites and marketing materials. Our intellectual property rights are embodied in confidential and proprietary technology and data, trademarked brands relating to our business units, products, services, and solutions, original content on our materials such as websites and marketing materials, and domain names. With respect to our trademarks, we maintain an extensive portfolio of perpetual common law and federally-registered trademark rights across several brands. We have also sought protection and registration of certain brands and trademarks internationally, such as in Europe and Canada. At present, we do not hold any issued patents.
 
We use data acquired through licensing rights from approximately 20 providers. The loss of any one of these providers could have an immediate near-term impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We rely on declarative, first-party data supplied by our users and supplemented and verified with third-party data sources.
 Regulatory Matters
 Our Information Services segment is subject to various federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act (18 U.S.C. §§ 2721- 2725) (“DPPA”), the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 6801- 6809) (“GLBA”),  the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”), the Federal Trade Commission Act (the “FTC Act”), the Telephone  Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), and the CAN SPAM Act of 2003 (“CAN-SPAM  Act”). A change in any one of a number of the laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business or the enactment of new or amended legislation or industry regulations to consumer or private sector privacy issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to provide products or services to its customers. Legislation or industry regulations regarding consumer or private sector privacy issues could place restrictions upon the collection, sharing and use of information that is currently legally available, which could materially increase our cost of collecting and maintaining some data. These types of legislation or industry regulations could also prohibit us from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients’ requirements and our profitability and cash flow targets.
 Our Performance Marketing segment is subject to a variety of federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations applicable to online advertising, commercial email marketing, telemarketing and privacy, including, but not limited to, the FTC Act, TCPA, Do Not Call Implementation Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Telemarketing Sales Rule (“TSR”) and California Business & Professions Code § 17529 (the 
 8


“California Anti- Spam Act”). These laws, rules and regulations are constantly changing and keeping our business in compliance with or bringing our business into compliance with new laws may be costly, affect our revenue and harm our financial results.
 Seasonality
 Our results are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Historically, certain products within our Information Services segment experience strength during the second and third quarters, while other products, including within our Performance Marketing segment, tend to be strongest in the fourth quarter, due to holiday advertising budgets, which traditionally carry over into the first quarter.
Management Team
 Our management team has a track record of strong performance and significant expertise in the markets we serve. We have built the leading companies in our industry, creating significant shareholder value. We continue to attract and retain experienced management talent for our business. Our team has deep knowledge of the big data and analytics sector and the online marketing and digital advertising industry, and expertise across the various industries that we serve. Our team has overseen the expansion of our proprietary technology platforms, while managing ongoing initiatives and the strategic acquisition of synergistic businesses and technologies. As a result, we are well positioned to continue to successfully drive growth both organically and through acquisitions.
Our Employees
 We employ 209 persons as of December 31, 2017. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization, and none are party to any collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Competition in the recruiting of personnel in the big data and analytics sector is intense. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, motivate and retain qualified sales and marketing, executive and administrative and technical personnel. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in attracting or retaining qualified employees.
Spin-off of Red Violet and Business Combination Agreement 
 On September 6, 2017, the Company entered into a Business Combination Agreement (the “Business Combination Agreement”) with BlueFocus International Limited (“BlueFocus”), a private company limited by shares registered in Hong Kong. Under the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, the Company would issue to BlueFocus shares of the Company’s common stock, representing 63% of the Company’s common stock on a fully diluted, post-transaction basis (the “Purchased Shares”), in consideration of the contribution of the equity interests of certain entities and $100.0 million in cash by BlueFocus (the “Business Combination Transaction”). BlueFocus would also repay, assume, or refinance indebtedness of the Company. Before closing of the Business Combination Transaction, cogint would contribute its data and analytics operations and assets into its wholly-owned subsidiary, Red Violet, Inc. (“Red Violet”), and the shares of Red Violet would be distributed as a stock dividend to cogint stockholders of record as of the record date (the “Record Date”) and to certain warrant holders (the “Spin-off”). 
 As a condition to closing of the Business Combination Transaction, BlueFocus and the Company sought regulatory approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (“CFIUS”). CFIUS has indicated its unwillingness to approve the transaction, therefore, on February 20, 2018, the parties withdrew their application with CFIUS and terminated the Business Combination Agreement in accordance with its terms. 
 On February 12, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the plan to accelerate the Spin-off. Despite the termination of the Business Combination Agreement, the Company will continue with the accelerated Spin-off of Red Violet, which is governed by a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”) as well as other related agreements between cogint and Red Violet, each entered into on February 27, 2018. The Company will contribute $20.0 million in cash to Red Violet upon completion of the Spin-off. Red Violet has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form 10, registering under the Exchange Act, the shares of Red Violet to be distributed in the Spin-off. As a result, upon completion of the Spin-off, cogint stockholders will hold shares of two public companies, cogint and Red Violet. cogint common stock will continue trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”). 
 On March 7, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors established March 19, 2018 as the Record Date and March 26, 2018 as the distribution date (the “Distribution Date”) for the Spin-off. On March 9, 2018, in order to meet NASDAQ initial listing requirement of a minimum $4.00 bid price, the Company adjusted the Spin-off ratio so that on the Distribution Date, stockholders of the Company will receive, by way of a dividend, one share of Red Violet common stock for each 7.5 shares of cogint common stock held as of the Record Date. On March 13, 2018, NASDAQ approved Red Violet’s application to list its common stock on NASDAQ under the symbol “RDVT.”
 9



On March 8, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of cogint approved the acceleration of an aggregate of 5,222,561 shares 
of stock options, RSUs and restricted stock held by certain employees, consultants, and directors, including only those employees who will continue with Red Violet upon completion of the Spin-off, subject to such employees still being employed or providing services on the acceleration date. The acceleration date was subsequently determined to be March 12, 2018. The share-based compensation expense of $15.3 million resulting from the above-mentioned acceleration is expected to be recognized in discontinued operations during the first quarter of 2018.
 Available Information
 cogint’s principal executive offices are located at 2650 North Military Trail, Suite 300, Boca Raton, Florida 33431 and our telephone number is (561) 757-4000. Our internet website is www.cogint.com. The website address provided in this 2017 Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and information obtained on the websites is not and should not be considered part of this 2017 Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this 2017 Form 10-K or any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on cogint’s Investor Relations website at www.cogint.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website located at http://www.sec.gov that contains the information we file or furnish electronically with the SEC.
 January 2018 Registered Direct Offering
 
Pursuant to a definitive securities purchase agreement on January 10, 2018 (the “January 2018 Securities Purchase Agreement”) with certain qualified institutional buyers, the Company issued an aggregate of 2,700,000 shares of common stock in a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of $13.5 million, with a purchase price of $5.00 per share, which was received in January 2018. Simultaneously, the Company issued such institutional buyers, for no additional consideration, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,350,000 shares of common stock. The warrants have an exercise price of $6.00 per share and are exercisable from the date of issuance and expire on the earlier of the close of business on the two-year anniversary of (i) the date the registration statement registering the resale of the underlying shares is declared effective by the SEC or (ii) the commencement date that such warrants may be exercised by means of a “cashless exercise.”
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
 Our executive officers are as follows:
 
 
Name | Position 
Derek Dubner James Reilly | Chief Executive Officer and Director President
Daniel MacLachlan | Chief Financial Officer 
Jeff Dell | Chief Information Officer 

 Mr. Derek Dubner, 46, presently serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and as a member of the Company’s Board since March 2015, as well as Chief Executive Officer of Interactive Data, a cogint subsidiary. Mr. Dubner served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer from March 2015 until March 2016, when he was appointed the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. Also, Mr. Dubner served as our Interim President from July 2016 to June 2017. Mr. Dubner has over 15 years of experience in the data fusion industry. Mr. Dubner has served as the Chief Executive Officer of cogint subsidiary The Best One, Inc. (“TBO”, now known as the IDI Holdings, LLC (“IDI Holdings”)), a holding company engaged in the acquisition of operating businesses and the acquisition and development of technology assets across various industries, and its subsidiary, Interactive Data, since October 2014. Prior to TBO, Mr. Dubner served as General Counsel of TransUnion Risk and Alternative Data Solutions, Inc. (“TRADS”) from December 2013 to June 2014. Mr. Dubner served as General Counsel and Secretary of TLO, LLC (“TLO”), an information solutions provider, from inception in 2009 through December 2013.
 Mr. James Reilly, 43, has served as President of the Company since July 1, 2017, and previously from June 2015 until June 30, 2016, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of two of cogint’s subsidiaries, IDI Holdings and Interactive Data, from October 2014 until June 30, 2016. From July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, Mr. Reilly was enjoined from providing services for cogint or its subsidiaries. Previously, Mr. Reilly served as Vice President of Sales at TRADS. From August 2010 through its acquisition of substantially all of the assets by TRADS in December 2013, Mr. Reilly served as Senior Vice President of TLO.
 10


Mr. Daniel MacLachlan, 39, has served as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company since March 2016 and brings over a decade of experience as the chief financial officer of data-driven technology companies. Mr. MacLachlan served as an Independent Director, Audit and Compensation Committee Chairman for Vapor Corp., a U.S.-based distributor and retailer of vaporizers, e-liquids and electronic cigarettes, from April 2015 through April 2016. From October 2014 until early February 2015, Mr. MacLachlan served as the Chief Financial Officer of TBO. Prior to TBO, Mr. MacLachlan served in the roles of Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer for TRADS, after it acquired substantially all of the assets of TLO, through a 363 sale process in December 2013. Mr. MacLachlan was the Chief Financial Officer of TLO since its inception in 2009. From 2005 to 2009, Mr. MacLachlan served as the Chief Financial Officer of JARI Research Corporation (“JARI”), a partnership with the Mayo Clinic advancing proprietary cancer therapeutic technology using targeted radioactive therapy. Prior to JARI, Mr. MacLachlan served as a Special Agent in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) specializing in the criminal investigation of public corruption and civil rights violations.
 Mr. Jeff Dell, 46, has served as the Chief Information Officer of the Company since September 2016 and served as the Interim Chief Information Officer of the Company from June 2016 through September 2016. From July 2015 through May 2016, Mr. Dell served as the VP Information Security of the Company. From June 2012 to June 2015, Mr. Dell served as Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Endurance Tracker, Inc., a sports-based data analytics solution. From August 2009 to May 2012, Mr. Dell served as Lead Architect at Tripwire, Inc. From October 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Dell served as Chief Information Security Officer of TLO. From September 2003 to August 2009, Mr. Dell served as Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Activeworx, Inc., a leading information security data analytics company. From January 2001 to August 2003, Mr. Dell served as Chief Information Security Officer of Seisint, Inc., a leading provider in the data fusion industry.
 