Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
This Annual Report (including the following section regarding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters, including statements regarding our business, our financial position, the research and development of our products and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.
Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Overview
Inovio is developing active SynCon® DNA immunotherapies and vaccines focused on treating and preventing cancers and infectious diseases. SynCon® immunotherapies, in combination with our proprietary CELLECTRA® delivery devices, are intended to generate optimal antigen production in vivo, in particular functional CD8+ killer T cell and antibody responses, to fight target diseases. We seek to become the “go-to” immunotherapeutic solution provider for all diseases caused by human papillomavirus, or HPV, including for pre-cancer diseases like cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia, or CIN, vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, or VIN, and anal intraepithelial neoplasia, or AIN, as well as cancers caused by HPV, such as head and neck cancer and cervical cancer. We believe that we are a leader in T cell-generating immunotherapy with our product candidate INO-3112, also known as MEDI0457, being developed in collaboration with MedImmune as a combination therapy with MedImmune’s PD-1/PDL-1 checkpoint inhibitor candidate for the potential treatment of multiple cancers and an innovator in vaccine development for rapidly combating emerging infectious diseases.
In September 2015, proof of concept data was published in the medical journal The Lancet from a controlled Phase 2b clinical trial in which we generated significant, functional antigen-specific T cells that correlated to clinically relevant efficacy against HPV-associated cervical dysplasia (precancer). In June 2017, we began a Phase 3 clinical trial of our product candidate VGX-3100 for the treatment of cervical dysplasia. 
Our novel SynCon® immunotherapy design can help break the immune system’s tolerance of cancerous cells and is also intended to facilitate cross-strain protection against known and new unmatched strains of pathogens, such as influenza. Given the recognized role of CD8+ killer T cells in eliminating cancerous or infected cells from the body and the published results from our Phase 2b clinical trial, we believe that our active immunotherapies may play an important role in helping fight multiple cancers and infectious diseases. Human data to date have shown a favorable safety profile of our DNA immunotherapies delivered using electroporation.
We or our collaborators are currently conducting or planning clinical studies of our proprietary SynCon® immunotherapies for CIN, VIN and AIN; head and neck and cervical cancer caused by HPV; prostate cancer; bladder cancer; glioblastoma, or GBM; breast, lung and pancreatic cancers; hepatitis C virus, or HCV; hepatitis B virus, or HBV; human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV; Ebola virus; Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, or MERS; and Zika virus.
Our corporate strategy is to advance and protect our differentiated immunotherapy platform and use its unique capabilities to design and develop an array of cancer and infectious disease immunotherapy and vaccine products. We aim to advance products through to commercialization. We continue to leverage third-party resources through collaborations and partnerships, including product license agreements. Our partners and collaborators include MedImmune, LLC, The Wistar Institute, University of Pennsylvania, GeneOne Life Science, Inc., Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Genentech, Inc., Plumbline Life Sciences, Inc., the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, Drexel University, National Microbiology Laboratory of the Public Health Agency of Canada, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (“NIAID”), United States Military HIV Research Program (“USMHRP”), U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases 
2

(“USAMRIID”), National Institutes of Health ("NIH"), HIV Vaccines Trial Network (“HVTN”) and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (“DARPA”).
Inovio’s Differentiated Immunotherapy Platform
We believe that stimulating the immune system to prevent or treat infections and cancers is a compelling concept and that today the opportunity for immune activating technologies with the potential to fight cancers and infectious diseases is promising, especially in light of notable technology advancements such as checkpoint inhibitors leading the way in oncology. Despite promising results in clinical trials, there remains a significant need and opportunity for further advancements.
Our ASPIRE™ (Antigen SPecific Immune REsponses) immunotherapy platform comprising our DNA-based immunotherapy and CELLECTRA® delivery technologies has an important fundamental capability with a number of possible disease targets and product opportunities. The basic goal of our platform is to enable in vivo (in the body) generation of useful immune responses to achieve desired therapeutic and preventive outcomes. We have historically been primarily focused on in vivo generation of disease-specific antigens in the body in order to stimulate prophylactic or therapeutic immune responses. More recently, we have embarked on an additional new application for the platform: in vivo generation of monoclonal antibodies to achieve preventive and therapeutic outcomes complementary to our antigen-generating immunotherapies.
The essence of our platform is that we encode a DNA plasmid (circular string of DNA) for an engineered and optimal genetic sequence of an antigen or monoclonal antibody specific to a targeted disease. We can combine multiple such plasmids into a “product,” inject the plasmids into tissue of the body, use CELLECTRA® devices to apply transient electrical energy to facilitate significant cellular uptake of the plasmids, and then enhance the ability of the intracellular machinery that usually produces useful proteins for the functioning of the body to temporarily produce the target antigen or monoclonal antibody. An antigen produced in this manner will then induce the immune system to generate polyclonal antibodies or T cells with the ability to perform their preventive or therapeutic functions. Similarly, DNA encoded monoclonal antibodies (dMAbs™) generated in this manner can then also trigger desired immune system functions.
With our core technologies, we have developed a pipeline of pre-clinical and clinical-stage product candidates that have generated best-in-class in vivo immune responses, in particular CD8+ T cells that are fundamental in eliminating cancerous or infected cells. Our lead immunotherapy product candidate, VGX-3100, met its primary and secondary endpoints in a controlled Phase 2b clinical trial of patients HPV-associated precancer, achieving statistically significant and clinically relevant efficacy in association with robust T cell activation. This data was published in The Lancet in a paper entitled, “Safety, efficacy, and immunogenicity of VGX-3100, a therapeutic synthetic DNA vaccine targeting human papillomavirus 16 and 18 E6 and E7 proteins for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2/3: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2b trial.” These results were achieved without serious adverse events. The most common adverse event was temporary injection site pain and redness.
Our immunotherapies are non-live and non-replicating, and therefore do not cause the underlying disease. Compared to other technologies, our immunotherapies work more naturally with the immune system and within its controls to reduce or minimize the risk of unwanted inflammatory responses.
The results of our Phase 2b clinical trial of VGX-3100 suggest that our platform can be used to design and develop a number of cancer and infectious disease product candidates.
The Next Generation of Cancer and Infectious Disease Treatment: Inovio's SynCon® Immunotherapies
Our SynCon® immunotherapies are designed to treat an existing disease (therapeutic) or prevent a disease (prophylactic) by activating and magnifying an immune response to one or more disease-specific antigens (proteins associated with a cancer or infectious disease that the body will recognize as foreign or not normal). Without the quality control and manufacturing challenges and costs of medicines involving ex vivo processes, such as T cells with chimeric antigen receptors, or CAR-Ts, our product candidates are able to direct the patient’s immune system to fight specific organisms or cells in a highly targeted and robust fashion. We do this by introducing the genetic code for a target antigen into the cells of the body that will serve as a temporary antigen production facility.
Our immunotherapies consist of one or more DNA plasmids encoding one or more selected antigens. Our approach enables dramatic uptake of the DNA plasmids by cells in localized tissue (typically muscle in the arm for immunotherapies or in the skin for vaccines). After the DNA code for the targeted antigen(s) is introduced to cells, the cells’ natural machinery for producing proteins necessary for the body’s many functions temporarily produce the selected antigen(s) encoded by the DNA sequences. The antigenic proteins manufactured through this process are then presented to the immune system and trigger one or both of two arms of the immune system: 

• | the production of preventive antibodies, known as a humoral immune response; and/or

•the activation of therapeutic CD8+ T-cells, known as a cellular or cell-mediated immune response. 
3

These responses then neutralize or eliminate infectious agents, such as viruses, bacteria, and other microorganisms, or abnormal cells, such as malignant tumor or infected cells. T cells can be immediately “trafficked” to parts of the body where cells are displaying the target antigen. Memory cells are also created for durable effects.
Our SynCon® DNA immunotherapies are designed to generate antigen-specific antibody and T cell responses. First we identify one or more antigens that we believe are the best targets to direct the immune system toward a particular cancer or infectious disease. We then apply our SynCon® design process, which uses the genetic make-up of the selected antigens from multiple variants of a cancer or strains of a virus.
For each antigen we synthetically create a new genetic sequence that represents a consensus of the slightly different DNA from multiple variants or strains of the targeted antigen. We can synthetically create a differentiated SynCon® variant to help the immune system better recognize a cancer self-antigen (a cell and antigen grown in the body) and “break the tolerance” of cancer cells in the body. In human clinical trials, we have generated immune responses with SynCon® immunotherapies that were not matched to different strains of an infectious disease, such as influenza or HIV, indicating that such immunotherapies may have more universal protective capabilities against unmatched strains of a circulating virus. As a result, these SynCon® constructs may provide a solution to broadly cover the genetic “shift” and “drift” that is typical of many infectious diseases. This new synthetically engineered sequence is similar to the originating sequences but does not match any. It does not exist in nature and is patentable.
The SynCon® sequence is inserted into a circular DNA plasmid with its own promoter. The plasmid is optimized at the DNA level for codon usage, improved mRNA stability, and provided with enhanced leader sequences for ribosome loading; it is optimized at the genetic level to enable high expression in human cells. We believe these design capabilities allow us to better target appropriate immune system mechanisms and produce a higher level of the coded antigen to enhance the overall ability of the immunotherapy to induce the desired immune response.
The plasmids are manufactured in a bacterial fermentation process using scalable technology. These DNA-based immunotherapies can be stable under normal environmental conditions for extended periods of time.
Inovio’s immunotherapies are injected in a local area of selected tissue (muscle or skin) and then electroporated to facilitate significant cellular uptake of the plasmid and expression (production) of the encoded DNA. The resulting immune response to the produced antigens results in significant production of antibodies or T cells.
Our product development platform also allows for rapid design, pre-clinical testing, cGMP manufacturing and clinical development of our vaccine and immunotherapy products. Speed is an important feature, particularly as it relates to developing a response to globally emerging infectious diseases. In 2016, we were the first entity able to advance a Zika vaccine into human clinical trials, just 4.5 months after World Health Organization, or WHO, declared the emerging Zika infections to be a Pandemic Health Emergency of International Concern. Previously, we led the development of the first MERS vaccine to enter into human clinical trials. We believe that our development platform is well positioned to support global health agencies in order to develop preparedness countermeasures against bioterrorism and/or emerging pandemic agents.
Published human data from three different SynCon® DNA immunotherapies--two for treating HPV-caused pre-cancers and cancers as well as one for treating HIV infection--have generated best-in-class T cell responses in terms of magnitude, durability, and/or killing effect, providing evidence of their potential to provide preventive and therapeutic capabilities against cancers and infectious diseases. This best-in-class T cell generation has also been correlated to efficacy.
CELLECTRA® Electroporation Delivery Technology
Despite how compelling the idea of delivering DNA encoding an antigen has been, delivering the DNA or nucleic acids directly into a cell through the cell’s protective membrane has been a significant challenge in the broad field of DNA and RNA vaccines. Our immunotherapies are delivered into cells of the body in a small local area of tissue using our proprietary CELLECTRA® in vivo electroporation DNA delivery technology. CELLECTRA® uses brief, locally applied electric fields to create temporary and reversible permeability, or pores, in the cell membrane. Using this method increases the cellular uptake of the DNA plasmids by more than one thousand times when compared to delivering “naked DNA” alone. This improved cellular uptake has enabled the best-in-class immune responses that we have observed in our clinical trials, along with the efficacy results generated by these immune responses.
Alternative delivery approaches based on the use of viruses, bacteria, nanoparticles, and lipids are complex and expensive and have created concerns regarding safety. Because the vector itself possesses many additional antigens specific to the vector it can attract unwanted immune responses against itself (believed to compromise such vectors’ ability to deliver their DNA “payload” and provide protection). In contrast, DNA plasmid vectors possess no antigens of their own: the plasmid results in production of only the target antigen.
We have published data in which immune responses generated by our SynCon® immunotherapies delivered using our CELLECTRA® electroporation technology were improved as compared to a leading viral vector (Adenovirus type 5) based 
4

approach. We are not aware of any published data indicating the capability of alternative technologies focused on using genetic code to generate preventive or therapeutic antigens to exceed our immune response data obtained to date, nor to match the efficacy and immune response data generated in our controlled Phase 2b study based on in vivo production of such immune responses.
We believe electroporation provides a relatively straightforward, cost effective method for delivering DNA and RNA into cells with high efficiency, minimal complications and the ability to enable what we believe to be clinically relevant levels of gene expression, immune responses and efficacy.
Inovio’s Immunotherapy Products and Product Development
Our primary focus is to advance the products developed from our integrated ASPIRE™ platform. Using this platform, we are currently developing a number of DNA-based immunotherapies for the prevention or treatment of cancer and chronic infectious diseases. The table below summarizes the status of our product development programs.
Active SynCon® Immunotherapy Development Programs


 | | Development Status
Product Area | Product andIndication(s) | Pre-Clinical | Phase 1 | Phase 2 | Phase 3 | Partner/Funding/Sponsor 
Cancer | Cervical dysplasia (cervical HSIL)(VGX-3100) | X | X | X | IP | Inovio 
 | Vulvar dysplasia (vulvar HSIL) (VGX-3100) | X | X | IP | | Inovio 
 | Head and neck cancer (MEDI0457) | X | X | IP | | MedImmune/AstraZeneca 
 | Bladder cancer (INO-5401 + atezolizumab) | X | X | IP | | Genentech/Roche 
 | Glioblastoma (INO-5401 + cemiplimab) | X | X | IP | | Regeneron 
 | Prostate cancer(INO-5150 + INO-9012) | X | X | SP | | Inovio 
 | hTERT expressing cancers (breast, lung, pancreatic)(INO-1400 + INO-9012) | X | IP | | | Inovio 
Infectious Disease | Hepatitis B Virus(INO-1800) | X | IP | SP | | Inovio 
 | Zika(GLS-5700) | X | IP | | | GeneOne Life Sciences 
 | Ebola(INO-4212) | X | IP | | | GeneOne Life Sciences/DARPA
 | MERS(GLS-5300) | X | IP | | | GeneOne Life Sciences/IVI 
 | HIV (preventive & therapeutic)(PENNVAX®-GP) | X | IP | SP | | NIH/NIAID 


X | = Completed 
IP | = In Progress 
SP | = Seeking Partner

Cancer Vaccines/Immunotherapies
Background
In recent years there have been multiple technology advancements and product approvals that have highlighted the potential of immunotherapies to usher in a new era of cancer therapeutics. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) such as Herceptin® and dendritic cell therapy Provenge® for prostate cancer have had their varying degrees of success. While a significant step forward, suitable monoclonal antibodies with desired characteristics have been difficult to design or identify and expensive to produce, and the technology does not lend itself to designing mAbs for many diseases. Dendritic or other cell-based therapy is 
5

a highly personalized medicine involving removing cells from the patient, modifying them, multiplying them, then returning them to the body. Besides the high cost and complex processes to manufacture the product, one of the glaring weaknesses of this approach is that it has not been shown to generate high levels of cancer-specific T cells.
Progress in the field of immune checkpoint inhibitors (CIs) created significant optimism regarding the potential for new immunotherapies against a spectrum of cancers. The immune system relies on a safeguard system of checkpoint mechanisms to prevent excessive or incorrectly directed immune responses. Many cancer cells have the ability to “hijack” these checkpoints and neutralize T cells sent by the immune system to eliminate them. Checkpoint inhibitors prevent cancer cells’ ability to interfere with these checkpoints and enable T cells (especially CD8 killer T cells) to complete their appropriate and intended killing function against cancer cells. Clinical trials of checkpoint inhibitors have shown notable therapeutic impact against melanoma and other cancers, but with response rates in the 15-20% range (and only in the case of melanoma going up to the 40% range), there remains an important and valuable opportunity to improve these results. Observations suggest CIs may be less effective if there is not a high enough pre-existing level of antigen-specific CD8 T cells in the tumor micro-environment, meaning that the tumor is “cold” rather than “hot” (with a significant level of T cells). More recently, scientists have recognized that a strong T cell generating “active” immunotherapy may be able to transform a "cold" tumor into a "hot" tumor and in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor may possess significant therapeutic potential to fight cancers.
More recently, a new category of immunotherapies called adoptive cell transfer, for example CAR-T technology, has provided further evidence of the merit of providing an enhanced T cell presence to fight cancer. CAR-T therapies have achieved dramatic results in B cell cancers. Unfortunately, they have also been associated with significant side effects. When this technology has been applied to solid tumors, it has generated significant cytokine storms that have resulted in severe side effects, including deaths. Moreover, adoptive cell transfer such as CAR-T, like dendritic cell therapy, involves removing T cells from a patient, modifying them to better target a cancer cell, multiplying the T cells, then returning them to the patient. These complex therapeutic products need to be manufactured and released for each patient, leading to expensive manufacturing and increased supply chain complexity. 
Even though there have been promising technology advancements in recent years that better harness or activate capable killer T cells, we believe there is still significant untapped potential to develop “ideal” immunotherapies to fight cancers and infectious diseases.
What is an “ideal” active immunotherapy? We want products that are effective, efficient, and safe. Specifically we want immunotherapies that:

• | target disease-specific antigens or proteins unique to a cancer or infectious disease;


• | do not depend on complex manufacturing processes such as removal of dendritic cells or T-cells from the patient that are then modified in the laboratory, amplified and then re-introduced in the patient as autologous or allogeneic cell based therapies;

•activate functional killer T cells with the necessary killing tools, such as granzyme and perforin;

• | generate robust T cell responses or a significant number of T cells, that are persistent and durable over time (memory response;

•do not induce unwanted immune responses;
•do not induce toxic inflammatory responses; and
•are capable of “breaking tolerance” of cancer cells grown in the body.
Our Phase 2b data (discussed below) show we are achieving these ideal characteristics with our active immunotherapy approach to activating significant antigen-targeted T cells and we are advancing a growing pipeline of pre-clinical and clinical immunotherapy products.
Our HPV Immunotherapy-VGX-3100 for the Treatment of Cervical High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (HSIL)
Overview and Background
Human papillomavirus, or HPV, is a causative agent responsible for cervical pre-cancers (cervical dysplasia), cervical cancer, other anogenital cancers, and head & neck cancer, which is one of the most rapidly growing cancers in men. At any given time, approximately 11% of the world’s population is infected with HPV.
HPV is the most common viral infection of the reproductive tract and is the major cause of cervical cancers. Almost 300 million women globally are estimated to be infected with HPV, with another 30 million additional cases that have progressed to the pre-cancerous stage. Every year over 500,000 new cases of cervical cancer are diagnosed world-wide and approximately half of these women die. Virtually all cases are linked with persistent infection with HPV. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance of preventive vaccines have resulted in only 40% of young women being vaccinated in the United States, and even less in other countries around the world.
6

While roughly 90% of HPV infections are cleared by the body's own immune system, persistent HPV infection can lead to high grade cervical dysplasia (CIN 2/3) and, if untreated, eventually invasive cervical cancer. Researchers have estimated the global prevalence of clinically pre-cancerous HPV infections at between 28 and 40 million. HPV 16 and 18 are the two most prevalent high-risk types of HPV worldwide, causing the significant majority of HPV-related cancers. HPV 16/18 are found in 52% of all high grade pre-cancerous cervical lesions and 70% of cervical cancers.
There is an annual incidence rate of lower-grade cervical dysplasia (CIN 1) caused by HPV types 16 and 18 of 1.4 million persons in the United States and 1.3 million persons in the top 5 European countries. There is an annual incidence rate of CIN 2/3 caused by HPV types 16 and 18 of 195,000 persons in the United States and 233,000 persons in Europe. These represent a significant market opportunity. CIN 1 has no treatment. CIN 2/3 can only be treated by an invasive surgical procedure.
There are currently two FDA approved preventive vaccines, Gardasil® and Cervarix®, that protect against HPV types 16 and 18, as well as types 6 and 11 (Gardasil®). Preventive HPV vaccines cannot treat or protect those already infected with HPV, which is a large population. In addition, not all girls and women eligible to be vaccinated are receiving these vaccines. In 2013, a U.S. national survey found that 57% of girls aged 13-17 years had received at least one dose of the HPV vaccine series, but only 38% had received all three doses in the series. In 2014, only 40% had received the full regimen. Currently there is no viable immunotherapy or drug to fight established HPV infection or treat cervical dysplasia and/or cancer caused by HPV.
Current treatment options for cervical dysplasia are unappealing. The “watch-and-wait” process associated with low grade dysplasia (CIN 1) is a stressful approach. The only available treatment option for high grade cervical dysplasia (CIN 2/3) is surgery, which involves ablating or cutting a women’s cervix to remove the pre-cancerous lesions. While surgical procedures are generally effective in removing lesions, they can lead to cervical scarring and longer-term reproductive risks such as pre-term birth, miscarriage, and infertility. Current CIN excisional and ablative procedures increase risk of pre-term births from 5.6% to 10.7% according to Kyrgiou et al in a meta-analysis published June 2016 in the British Medical Journal. Anticipation of these procedures produces significant anxiety for patients, despite their doctor’s reassurances, and full recovery from surgery can take up to several weeks. Because surgery does not clear the underlying HPV infection, there is a 10-16% chance of pre-cancer lesion recurrence as a result of persistent infection or incomplete removal of the lesion during surgery.
Our product candidate VGX-3100 is designed to significantly increase T cell immune responses against the E6 and E7 antigens of HPV types 16 and 18 that are present in both pre-cancerous and cancerous cells transformed by these HPV types. E6 and E7 are oncogenes that play an integral role in transforming HPV-infected cells into pre-cancerous and cancerous cells. The goal of the immunotherapy is to stimulate the body's immune system to mount a killer T cell response strong enough to cause the killing of cells producing the E6/E7 protein. The potential of such an immunotherapy would be to treat pre-cancerous dysplasias caused by these HPV types.
Phase 2b Study Results
Based on the positive results from a Phase 1 clinical trial, in March 2011 we initiated a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind Phase 2b study of VGX-3100 delivered using our CELLECTRA® intramuscular electroporation device in women with HPV type 16 or 18 and diagnosed with, but not yet treated for, high grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 2/3). The women in the study received either 6 mg of VGX-3100, the highest dose used in the Phase 1 clinical trial, or a placebo. VGX-3100 and placebo were administered using the CELLECTRA® in vivo electroporation device at months 0, 1, and 3. The study assessed efficacy by measuring regression of cervical lesions from CIN 2/3 to CIN 1 or normal in the treated versus control subjects. Immunological responses were also measured in this clinical study to assess the ability of this therapy to generate strong T cell responses in a larger, controlled study. Safety was also assessed.
The primary endpoint of the trial, histologic regression, was evaluated 36 weeks after the first treatment. In the per protocol analysis of this three-immunization regimen, CIN2/3 resolved to CIN1 or no disease in 53 of 107 (49.5%) women treated with VGX-3100, compared to 11 of 36 (30.6%) who received placebo. This difference was statistically significant (p=0.017). Intent to treat results were also similar and statistically significant.
There was also a high level of complete clearance of CIN 2/3. In a post-hoc analysis, CIN 2/3 resolved to no disease in 43 of 107 (40.2%) women treated with VGX-3100, compared to 6 of 36 (16.7%) who received placebo (p=0.006).
A secondary endpoint of the trial was virological clearance of HPV 16 or 18 from the cervix in conjunction with histopathological regression of cervical dysplasia to CIN1 or no disease. This endpoint was achieved in 43 of 107 (40.2%) VGX-3100 recipients, compared to 5 of 35 (14.3%) placebo recipients (p=0.001). We believe this is an important outcome, as persistence of the HPV virus is associated with recurrence of cervical dysplasia.
All Phase 2b patients were monitored for an additional 52 weeks for a safety follow up. No significant safety issues were observed through week 88 following treatment.
7

In September 2015, this data was published in The Lancet in a paper entitled, “Safety, efficacy, and immunogenicity of VGX-3100, a therapeutic synthetic DNA vaccine targeting human papillomavirus 16 and 18 E6 and E7 proteins for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2/3: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2b trial.”
This paper reported further details regarding the characteristics of T cells generated and their association with efficacy outcomes. Analyses of patient immune responses showed that overall antigen-specific T cell levels in women treated with VGX-3100 were greater than those treated by placebo at all observation periods. At week 14, levels of CD8 T cells specific to the E6 and E7 HPV antigens in women treated with VGX-3100 were ten times greater than those in the placebo group. This response increased with each of the three immunizations, then declined modestly to a sustained and durable level of T cells (memory T cells) measured through 36 weeks (24 weeks post-treatment).
Patients whose lesions regressed had higher frequencies of HPV-specific CD8+T cells which co-expressed key molecules important in the T cell killing cascade and directly correlated with clinical efficacy. Specifically, higher levels of CD8+ killer T cells co-expressing checkpoint molecule CD137 on their surface, as well as the cytolytic protein perforin, were observed to be a predictive tool for efficacy. As a strong activation marker for CD8+ T cells, stimulation through CD137 has been shown in some systems to confer resistance of CD8+ T cells to the suppressive activity of regulatory T cells, indicating that its presence can identify tumor reactive T cells. Perforin is a pore-forming protein deployed by killer T cells to bore holes into the target cell's plasma membrane and destroy the cell. The difference in frequencies of CD8+ cells expressing CD137 and perforin was greatest in patients who had both regressed their lesions and cleared HPV as compared to patients who did not.
This is the first publication to our knowledge that demonstrates the correlation of antigen-specific CD8 T cells generated in vivo directly to clinical efficacy. We have identified several key biomarkers of killer T cells that we believe can be used to predict the clinical efficacy of VGX-3100, as well as other immunotherapies, which we will seek to confirm in future clinical trials.
Our Phase 2b clinical trial of VGX-3100 highlights the ability of a DNA-based immunotherapy to be locally administered in tissue distant from the diseased tissue target, generate robust functional CD8+ killer T cells, traffic those T cells to the diseased tissue, infiltrate diseased cells displaying the target antigen, and facilitate the elimination of these cells both in “healthy” tissue and in diseased tissue (a lesion) with a statistically significant, clinically relevant outcome. We believe these results have significant implications in displaying the broad therapeutic and preventive potential of our existing and future cancer and infectious disease products.
Preparation and launch of VGX-3100 registration Phase 3 study
In preparation for pivotal Phase 3 development and commercialization, we completed a manufacturing technology-transfer to a commercial manufacturing facility and scaled up manufacturing of VGX-3100.
We also designed and manufactured a new electroporation device for commercial use, our CELLECTRA® 5PSP device, which is fully automated, smaller and more user-friendly compared to our device previously used in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials.
We have conducted additional market research with physicians and patients that have further characterized the unmet medical needs relating to the treatment of high grade cervical dysplasia (CIN 2/3). These include a preference for a non-invasive, non-surgical procedure for removing cervical lesions; a treatment that can clear HPV, the cause of the pre-cancer, throughout the body and not just in the limited area of the lesion; and a treatment that has no risk of causing pre-term births or infertility. We believe that CIN 2/3 represents a unique market opportunity for a novel therapy capable of providing a first-line alternative to surgery. This market research will help guide our communication and interaction with the physician, patient, and support communities.
Phase 3 program for VGX-3100 (REVEAL)
Our Phase 3 program, named REVEAL (Randomized Evaluation of VGX-3100 and Electroporation for the Treatment of Cervical HSIL), consists of a primary study (REVEAL 1) and confirmatory study (REVEAL 2), in accordance with the FDA's general guidance for Phase 3 programs, to be conducted in parallel. The studies will each enroll 198 patients in more than 100 study centers globally. Mark Einstein, MD, MS, FACS, FACOG, Professor and Chair Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women’s Health Assistant Dean, Clinical Research Unit, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, is Principal Investigator for the studies.
The REVEAL studies are prospective, randomized (2:1), double-blind, placebo-controlled trials evaluating adult women with HPV 16/18 positive biopsy-proven cervical HSIL (also known as CIN 2 or 3). The primary endpoint is regression of cervical HSIL AND virologic clearance of HPV-16 and/or HPV-18 in the cervix. The studies will evaluate cervical tissue changes at approximately 9 months after beginning a three-dose regimen of VGX-3100 administered at months 0, 1, and 3. Secondary endpoints include safety; tolerability; regression of CIN 2/3 to CIN 1 or normal; virologic clearance of HPV; efficacy measured by non-progression to cancer; and clearance of HPV from non-cervical anatomic locations.
8

VGX-3100 for the Treatment of Vulvar High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL)
In April 2017, we commenced a Phase 2 trial to evaluate the efficacy of VGX-3100 in patients with pre-cancerous lesions of the vulva, or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN). VIN has less than a 5% rate of spontaneous, or natural, regression and there are no FDA approved non-surgical treatments. Surgery, the most common treatment, is associated with high rates of disease recurrence and can cause disfigurement, long-term pain, and psychological distress for the women who undergo the procedure. VIN recurs in approximately one of every two patients who undergo surgical treatment.
This randomized, open-label Phase 2 clinical trial will assess the efficacy of VGX-3100 in 36 women with high-grade HPV-related vulvar lesions. The immunotherapy will be administered with our CELLECTRA® intramuscular delivery device. The primary endpoint of the study is histologic clearance of high-grade lesions and virologic clearance of the HPV virus in vulvar tissue samples. The study will also evaluate safety and tolerability of VGX-3100. 
We also plan to expand the clinical development program for VGX-3100 to include the potential treatment anal intraepithelial neoplasias, or AIN, with the intent to launch a Phase 2 study in 2018. 
Further Analysis of VGX-3100 Phase 2b Data Reveals Immune Correlates and Biomarker Signatures
In November 2017, we announced that a post-hoc analysis of data generated from our Phase 2b trial of VGX-3100 identified immune correlates and biomarker signatures that were predictive of potential treatment success.  Details of the new biomarker and immunologic data are highlighted in the peer-reviewed journal Clinical Cancer Research in the article, “Clinical and Immunologic Biomarkers for Histologic Regression of High-grade Cervical Dysplasia and Clearance of HPV-16 and HPV-18 after Immunotherapy,” by Inovio and its academic collaborators.
ApolloBio Commercial Agreement 
In December 2017, we entered an amended agreement providing ApolloBio Corporation with the exclusive right to develop and commercialize VGX-3100 within Greater China (China, Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan). Additional details on the ApolloBio Agreement are provided below under "Business-License, Collaboration and Supply Agreements". 
Our HPV Immunotherapy-MEDI0457 (VGX-3100 +DNA-Based IL-12 Cytokine INO-9012) for the Treatment of Head & Neck Cancer
Overview and Background
HPV is also associated with some head and neck cancers, especially those in the oropharynx and perhaps to some extent the larynx and oral cavity. The incidence of HPV-caused oropharyngeal cancer has increased significantly within the last 30 years, including a 225% increase from 1988 to 2004, and is the fastest-rising cancer among young white men in the United States. In the United States, approximately 12,000 new cases of HPV-caused oropharyngeal cancer are diagnosed annually in men and women combined. The estimated U.S. prevalence of HPV-caused oral cavity and pharynx cancer was approximately 104,000 cases in 2014.
By 2020, scientists estimate that HPV will cause more cases of oropharyngeal cancer than cervical cancer and by 2025 HPV will be the causative factor of 90% of all head & neck cancers, up from 63% currently. Greater than 70% of cancers of the oropharynx are linked to HPV, with HPV16 being the most prevalent serotype of those HPV-caused cancers.
Improvements in primary treatment modalities (surgery and radiation) have produced significant improvements in morbidity, but intensive radiation has a profound long-term impact on mortality and quality of life. Based on these factors, we believe there is a significant opportunity for an effective immunotherapy.
Clinical Development
In June 2014, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial assessing the immunogenicity and safety of our product candidate INO-3112 (consisting of VGX-3100 in combination with a DNA-based IL-12 cytokine (INO-9012)) in head & neck cancer patients. We added our DNA-based IL-12 immune activator to VGX-3100 for this cancer study because our prior HIV vaccine clinical study had indicated that the addition of IL-12 to our DNA immunotherapy could enhance the activation of CD8 T cells.
We enrolled 22 adults with HPV16 and/or HPV18-positive head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) in this open-label Phase 1 trial. Patients were treated with INO-3112 and then followed for safety, immune and clinical responses. In one part of the study, 6 patients were treated with INO-3112 before and after resection of their tumor. In the second part of the study, 16 patients were treated with INO-3112 after completion of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Each INO-3112 treatment was administered using our CELLECTRA® delivery system.
In November 2015, we reported interim data showing that INO-3112 had generated robust HPV16/18 specific CD8+ T cell responses and antibodies against HPV16/18 in all 10 tested patients for whom data analyses were complete at that time. The treatment was well tolerated in all evaluable patients.
9

In November 2016, at the Annual Meeting of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer (SITC), we reported interim immunology results showing that in the group of six patients treated before resection (one dose averaging 14 days and ranging 7 to 28 days prior to definitive surgery) and post-surgery (three additional doses), INO-3112 generated robust HPV16/18 specific CD8+ T cell responses in peripheral blood in four of five subjects who also showed increased T cell activation in resected tumor tissue samples. One subject withdrew consent after surgery, leaving five evaluable subjects in this group. These four subjects remained disease-free in continuing follow-up that ranged from nine to 24 months at the time of analysis. One subject with minimal increases in T cell immune responses developed progressive disease at 11 months after treatment.
CD8+ and FoxP3 T cell expression were evaluated in tumor samples obtained before and after surgery. In addition, ELISpot analysis was performed to determine the number of T cells capable of secreting IFN-ã in response to HPV antigen stimulation. Four of five subjects had robust T cell response as measured by blood ELISpot assay, and the same four subjects also showed an average increase of 60% of CD8+ to FoxP3 ratio measured by immunohistochemistry post vaccination, demonstrating increased infiltration of CD8+ T cells as well as reduction of regulatory T cells measured by FoxP3 expression in tumor tissue.
The second treatment group enrolled 16 subjects who received four doses of INO-3112 after at least two months following completion of definitive chemoradiation or surgery and adjuvant chemoradiation therapy.
Collaboration with MedImmune
In August 2015, we formed a strategic collaboration with MedImmune, LLC, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, focused on cancer immunotherapies. Under this agreement MedImmune licensed INO-3112 (renamed MEDI0457), to be studied in combination with selected immunotherapy molecules within its pipeline in HPV-driven cancers. See “Business- License, Collaboration and Supply Agreements” for additional information about the collaboration agreement. Emerging evidence suggests that the benefits from immuno-oncology molecules, such as those in MedImmune's portfolio, can be enhanced when they are used in combination with cancer vaccines that generate tumor-specific T-cells. 
In May 2017, we announced that MedImmune will conduct a Phase 1/2 clinical trial investigating the combination of MEDI0457 and durvalumab, a PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor. The combination trial will enroll patients with metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN with persistent or recurrent disease after chemotherapy treatment.
The open-label clinical trial is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination therapy in approximately 50 subjects at multiple U.S. sites. Subjects will receive multiple doses of MEDI0457 and durvalumab. The primary endpoints of the trial are safety and objective response rate. The trial will also evaluate immunological impact, progression-free survival and overall survival.
Under our collaboration agreement, MedImmune will fund all of the costs of this trial. 
Our Prostate Cancer Immunotherapy-INO-5150
The development of a new treatment for prostate cancer would be a significant medical advance given that present treatment options (surgery, radiation and hormone deprivation), while somewhat effective, all carry deleterious side effects and often do not confer long-term cure. Across the United States, there were 238,000 new cases of prostate cancer and more than 29,000 deaths in 2013.
In July 2015, we initiated a Phase 1 trial to evaluate our DNA immunotherapy for prostate cancer, INO-5150, in men with biochemically relapsed prostate cancer. This study is evaluating the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of INO-5150 alone or in combination with INO-9012, Our DNA-based IL-12 immune activator. The multi-centered study is also evaluating changes in prostate specific antigen, or PSA, levels, an important biomarker in prostate cancer. We have fully enrolled 62 patients in the trial across 4 dose cohorts.
An interim data analysis presented in September 2017 at the European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) meeting in Madrid, Spain showed that INO-5150 had generated antigen-specific CD8+ killer T cell responses measured in peripheral blood from subjects with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer. Treatment with INO-5150 as a monotherapy generated PSA and prostate specific membrane antigen, or PSMA, specific T cell responses in peripheral blood in 60% (35/58) of the subjects. Patients with specific CD8+ T cell responses experienced dampening in the rise of PSA and significant increases in PSA Doubling Times (PSADT). 
We are seeking strategic collaborators in order to continue the development of INO-5150.
 Our hTERT Immunotherapy-INO-1400
Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is a significant cancer immunotherapy target. High levels of hTERT have been detected in more than 85% of all human cancers, including breast, lung, and pancreatic cancers, while normal cells showed undetectable levels of telomerase expression. Immunological analysis indicated that hTERT is a widely applicable target recognized by T-cells and can be potentially used as a universal cancer immunotherapy. In 2017, over 530,000 new cases of breast, lung, or pancreatic cancers were reported in the United States and over 240,000 people died from these 
10

cancers. Despite available treatments, mortality rates remain unacceptably high in these tumor types. In addition, many existing treatment modalities are associated with significant adverse events.
In December 2014, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of INO-1400 alone or in combination with INO-9012 in adults with breast, lung or pancreatic cancer at high risk of relapse after surgery and other cancer treatments. This open label, dose escalation study is evaluating the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of INO-1400, as well as another hTERT construct called INO-1401. To date, we have treated 90 patients with nine different types of solid tumors. All patients received treatment using our CELLECTRA® delivery device.
In November 2017, in poster presentations at the SITC Annual Meeting, we reported additional results from the ongoing Phase 1 trial in which that INO-1400 generated hTERT-specific IFN-gamma secreting T cells, suggesting an ability to break immune tolerance. 
INO-1400 is also part of our product candidate INO-5401, an immunotherapy comprising hTERT and two other tumor-associated antigens for which we intend to initiate a clinical study in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor.
Our Cancer Immunotherapy-INO-5401
Our immunotherapy product candidate INO-5401 is comprised of three tumor-associated antigens, Wilms' tumor gene, or WT1, as well as hTERT and PSMA.
In February 2017, we reported data indicating that our SynCon® WT1 cancer antigen was capable of breaking immune tolerance - a major challenge to researchers striving to develop potent cancer therapies -- and induced neo-antigen-like T cell responses to cause tumor regression in pre-clinical studies. The results were published in Molecular Therapy in an article entitled, “A novel DNA vaccine platform enhances neo-antigen-like T-cell responses against WT1 to break tolerance and induce anti-tumor immunity.”
While mice in a preclinical study did not mount an immune response to native mouse WT1 antigens, mice immunized with our SynCon® WT1 antigen broke tolerance and generated robust neo-antigen-like T cells. The immunized mice also exhibited smaller tumors and prolonged survival in a tumor challenge study. SynCon® WT1 DNA vaccination also broke tolerance and generated neo-antigen-like T cell immune responses in Rhesus monkeys, a species whose immune system closely resembles that of humans. The ability to overcome the immune system’s usual tolerance of WT1 antigen suggests the potential of our SynCon® WT1 antigen to tackle any WT1-expressing cancer in humans, including pancreatic, brain, lung, thyroid, breast, testicular, ovarian, and melanoma.
We previously reported similar results for our SynCon® hTERT and PSMA cancer antigens.
The National Cancer Institute previously highlighted WT1, hTERT and PSMA among a list of attractive cancer antigens, designating them as high priorities for cancer immunotherapy development. WT1 was at the top of the list. The hTERT antigen relates to 85% of cancers and WT1 and PSMA antigens are also widely prevalent in many cancers.
These attributes of breaking tolerance and having broader prevalence across different cancers create the potential for INO-5401 to be an effective universal cancer immunotherapy in combination with different checkpoint inhibitors.
INO-5401 for Metastatic Bladder Cancer Treatment
Nearly 430,000 new cases of urinary bladder cancer are diagnosed each year worldwide; it accounts for about 165,000 deaths worldwide annually. Advanced unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma, or UC, the most common type of bladder cancer, remains a high unmet medical need, as survival remains poor for most patients who experience disease progression or intolerance to treatment during or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. The approval of several checkpoint inhibitors for advanced unresectable or metastatic UC has improved response and survival rates for some patients; however, the majority of patients do not experience meaningful clinical responses to checkpoint inhibitor monotherapy.
In October 2017, we announced an initiation of a Phase 1b/2 immuno-oncology trial to evaluate Genentech/Roche’s atezolizumab (TECENTRIQ®) in combination with INO-5401 and INO-9012. We will manage the multi-center, open-label efficacy trial, and Genentech will supply atezolizumab. The trial will evaluate the safety, immune response and clinical efficacy of the combination therapy in approximately 80 patients with advanced bladder cancer, specifically advanced unresectable or metastatic UC. The majority of the patients to be enrolled in the trial will have previously received and failed to demonstrate meaningful response to an anti-PD-1 or PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor alone. The study will evaluate the potential benefit of a checkpoint inhibitor combined with a DNA-based immunotherapeutic and T cell activator within a bladder cancer patient population with very limited treatment options and poor outcomes. The immunologic analyses accompanying the study will provide further insight into mechanisms of checkpoint inhibition and T cell activation in bladder cancer.
In November 2017, we announced the results of preclinical studies in which researchers observed a synergistic effect in combining our TERT (telomerase reverse transcriptase) cancer immunotherapy with a checkpoint inhibitor. In a mouse model, the combination resulted in robust anti-tumor effects and significant improvement in survival compared to either therapy alone. These results were detailed in a paper published in Molecular Therapy entitled, “Synergy of Immune Checkpoint 
11

Blockade with a Novel Synthetic Consensus DNA Vaccine Targeting TERT”. This published paper highlights the potential benefits of DNA immunotherapy/immune checkpoint blockade combinations using PD-1 or CTLA4 checkpoint inhibitors in patients that respond poorly to immune checkpoint blockade alone, allowing for improved rational design of potential combination therapies. These preclinical results also suggest that the synergistic anti-tumor effect is due to the effect of immune checkpoint blockade on expanding effector T cells generated from the TERT therapy in the tumor microenvironment rather than boosting vaccine responses in the periphery.
INO-5401 for Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) Treatment
GBM is a devastating disease for both patients and caregivers. It is the most aggressive brain cancer and its prognosis is extremely poor, despite a limited number of new therapies approved over the last 10 years. The median overall survival for patients receiving standard of care therapy is approximately 15 months and the average five-year survival rate is less than three percent.
In November 2017, we initiated a Phase 1b/2a immuno-oncology trial in patients with newly diagnosed GBM designed to evaluate cemiplimab (also known as REGN2810), a PD-1 inhibitor developed by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, in combination with INO-5401 and INO-9012.
The open-label trial of 50 patients will be conducted at approximately 30 U.S. sites, and the primary endpoints are safety and tolerability. The study will also evaluate immunological impact, progression-free survival and overall survival.
Infectious Disease Vaccines/Immunotherapies
Our Hepatitis B Virus-INO-1800
Although an effective preventive vaccine against hepatitis B virus, or HBV, infection has existed for over three decades, HBV remains a major epidemic, especially among people of Asian and African descent. The World Health Organization estimates that 2 billion people globally have been infected with HBV, with over 257 million people chronically infected with the virus and at risk of developing cirrhosis or liver cancer. It is estimated that over two million people in the United States are infected with the virus. Currently, the only therapies available for chronically infected individuals are interferon-alpha and nucleoside analog treatments, which function by controlling viral replication, but they do not clear infection. Interferon can prevent viral replication in only 30% of patients and does so with undesirable side effects.
Liver cancer is the second most common cause of death from cancer worldwide, killing most patients within five years of diagnosis. About 782,000 new cases arise each year. One of the major causes and risk factors for liver cancer is infection by hepatitis B. Chronically infected individuals may develop a permanent scarring of the liver, a condition called cirrhosis. Liver cirrhosis can evolve into hepatocellular carcinoma, which claims 746,000 lives annually.
INO-1800 is encoded for the HBcAg antigen and represents a consensus of the unique HBcAg DNA sequences of all major HBV genotypes (A through E). When delivered by electroporation, in a preclinical study, INO-1800 elicited strong HBcAg-specific T cell and antibody responses in the periphery (outside of the liver) as measured by ELISpot, ICS and cell proliferation assays. Researchers observed that the immunization could also induce antigen-specific CD8 and CD4 T cells that produced both IFN-y and TNF-a in the liver, indicating that a strong immunotherapy-induced T cell response was also present in the liver.
In the preclinical study, the antigen-specific T cells exhibited a killing function and were able to migrate to and stay in the liver and cause clearance of target cells without any evidence of liver injury. This was the first study to provide evidence that intramuscular immunization could induce killer T cells that can migrate to the liver and eliminate target cells.
In April 2015, we initiated a Phase 1 trial to evaluate INO-1800 in patients chronically infected with HBV. This randomized, open-label, active-controlled, dose escalation study was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of INO-1800 alone or in combination with INO-9012. This international study enrolled patients in the United States and Asia Pacific region with a primary endpoint of safety and tolerability of the therapy. Secondary endpoints are evaluating the cellular and humoral immune response to INO-1800 and its effect on several viral and antiviral parameters. All trial subjects are also medicated with standard-of-care antiviral therapies. 
We expect to report interim data from this Phase 1 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2018.
Our Vaccines for Emerging Infectious Diseases
Recognizing the impact of epidemic outbreaks of infectious diseases and the potential of DNA-based technology to play a vital role in rapidly and effectively addressing such diseases, we have been proactively advancing specific product development initiatives with an array of academic, government, non-government, and private collaborators in areas including Zika, Ebola, and MERS.
Zika Virus Overview
12

First identified in the late 1940s in Uganda, Zika virus subsequently spread to equatorial Asia in 1969 and then rapidly spread through the Pacific, and still later, in the 2014-2016 period, to and through South America, Central America and the Caribbean. In the end of that period, Zika virus emerged in two portions of the continental United States (extreme Southeastern Florida and extreme South Texas). Zika virus is a flavivirus, a family of viruses including yellow fever, dengue, and West Nile virus, which are introduced to people through mosquito bites. Because the Aedes species of mosquitoes that spread Zika virus are found in much of the world, there is concern that the virus will spread to new countries and cause additional outbreaks. There is also concern that Zika spreads sexually in humans, at least by males to females, as has been reported for some returning travelers and documented in multiple studies. In February 2016, the WHO stated that 39 countries had reported locally acquired circulation of the Zika virus since January 2007. Geographical distribution of the virus has expanded, and currently the WHO lists at least 93 countries as having risk of Zika virus infection. No vaccine or therapy currently exists for the Zika virus.
The most common symptoms of Zika virus are fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis. More seriously, health authorities have observed neurological and autoimmune complications potentially associated with Zika virus, including microcephaly in newborn children and Guillain-Barre syndrome. Microcephaly is a rare condition marked by an abnormally small head and incomplete brain development. There may also be a link with Guillain-Barré syndrome, a disease in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks peripheral nerves. Symptoms start with muscle weakness. In severe cases the person is almost totally paralyzed and the disorder can be life threatening.
In January 2016, we and GeneOne announced a joint research collaboration with academic collaborators of a SynCon® Zika virus vaccine known as GLS-5700.
Preclinical Studies- Zika Virus 
In February 2016, we announced that our Zika vaccine administered using our CELLECTRA® electroporation delivery device resulted in seroconversion, or the development of detectable specific antibodies in the blood, in all vaccinated mice. The vaccinations also generated robust and broad T cell responses as analyzed by the standardized T cell ELISPOT assay. In data reported in May 2016, two doses of the Zika DNA vaccine delivered either intramuscularly or intradermally resulted in seroconversion, in all vaccinated non-human primates and broad T cell responses as analyzed by the standardized T cell ELISPOT assay.
These results were later published in Nature Partner Journals (npj) Vaccines in November 2016. Additional data indicated that in the study GLS-5700 protected animals from infection, brain damage and death. All GLS-5700 vaccinated animals were protected from Zika infection after exposure to the virus. In addition, vaccinated mice were protected from degeneration in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal areas of the brain while unvaccinated mice showed significant degeneration of the brain after Zika infection.
Prior preclinical studies have tested potential Zika vaccine candidates in animal models involving normal mice and non-human primates that are naturally resistant to Zika. While providing useful immunology data, they cannot provide relevant evidence of an effective means of controlling the spread or medical impacts of this disease by vaccination. In addition to reporting immunogenicity in such Zika-resistant species, this paper represents the first published research to also analyze a Zika vaccine using the special transgenic murine strain A129 lacking interferon alpha and beta receptors (IFNAR-/-), making them highly susceptible to Zika infection and disease. Taking this extra step provided stronger data on how vaccine-generated immune responses could protect against a lethal viral challenge and demonstrates the benefit a Zika vaccine might provide in people.
In another preclinical study, the results of which were published in June 2017, GLS-5700 was observed to have protected against Zika virus-induced damage to testes and sperm, and prevented persistence of the virus in the reproductive tract of all vaccinated male mice challenged with a high dose of the Zika virus. This preclinical study data was published in Nature Communications in an article entitled, “DNA Vaccination Protects Mice Against Zika Virus-Induced Damage to the Testes”. 
Phase 1- 40 Patient Zika Study in U.S. & Canada
In June 2016, we were the first to commence a human Zika trial in healthy adult volunteers, with sites in the U.S. and Canada, with the first subject dosed in July. This Phase 1, open-label, dose-ranging study of 40 healthy adult volunteers was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of GLS-5700 administered with CELLECTRA®-3P, our intradermal DNA delivery device.
In this Phase 1 trial, a total of 40 participants (20 in each of two groups) received GLS-5700 in a 1 mg or 2 mg dose. The vaccine was administered in 0.1 ml intradermal injections. In October 2017, we announced positive safety and immune response results from the Phase 1 trial. The GLS-5700 Zika vaccine induced binding antibodies in 100% of the participants after a three-dose vaccination regimen and in 95% after two doses of vaccine. In addition, neutralizing antibodies were observed in more than 95% of the serum samples that were assayed on neuronal-cell targets. Serum samples from vaccinated subjects when subsequently transferred to mice were found to be protective from death and illness in more than 90% of 
13

animals after they were challenged with a lethal dose of the Zika virus. These results appeared in the New England Journal of Medicine in the article, “Safety and Immunogenicity of an Anti-Zika Virus DNA Vaccine.”
Phase 1- 160 Patient Zika Study in Puerto Rico
In August 2017, we and GeneOne initiated a second clinical trial of GLS-5700. In this second trial, we have enrolled 160 subjects in Puerto Rico, where the Zika virus outbreak has been declared a public health emergency. In this placebo-controlled, double-blind trial involving healthy adult volunteers, 80 subjects have received GLS-5700 and 80 subjects have received placebo. The study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of GLS-5700 administered with our CELLECTRA®-3P device. We will also assess differences in Zika infection rates in participants given either placebo or vaccine as part of an exploratory endpoint. We expect to report data from this trial in the second half of 2018.
Zika dMAb®
In December 2016, we received a $6.1 million sub-grant through The Wistar Institute (total grant value of $8.8 million) to develop a DNA-based monoclonal antibody designed to provide a fast-acting treatment against Zika infection and its debilitating effects. The goal of this program, which was funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, is for the researchers to develop a Zika dMAb® therapy ready for human clinical trials in less than two years. See the section below entitled "Synthetic DNA-based Monoclonal Antibodies" for further information on our DNA-based monoclonal antibody program.
Ebola Virus Overview
The Ebola virus has been described as one of the most virulent viral diseases, with lethality rates approaching 90%. Ebola can spread through human-to-human transmission by direct contact with the blood, secretions, organs or bodily fluids of an infected individual and with surfaces or materials that contain the contaminated fluids of an infected person, such as bedding and clothing. It is capable of causing death within two to twenty-one days of exposure. There are no approved preventive vaccines or effective therapeutic treatments for Ebola. In addition, various experimental approaches have already been associated with undesirable side effects and limited ability to scale manufacturing.
According to the CDC, the 2014 Ebola epidemic was the largest in history, resulting in 28,603 suspected and confirmed cases and 11,301 deaths as of January 31, 2016.
Preclinical and Clinical Development -- Ebola 
In 2014, we entered into a collaboration with GeneOne to advance a DNA immunotherapy for Ebola into clinical development. The decision to advance our Ebola immunotherapy was based on positive results observed in preclinical studies, in which 100% of immunized guinea pigs and mice were protected from death after being exposed to the Ebola virus. Unlike the non-immunized animals, immunized animals were also protected from weight loss, a measure of morbidity. Researchers found significant increases in neutralizing antibody titers and strong and broad levels of immunotherapy-induced T-cells, including "killer" T-cells, suggesting that this product could provide both preventive and treatment benefits. This data was published in 2013 in the peer-reviewed journal Molecular Therapy in a paper titled, "Induction of Broad Cytotoxic T Cells by Protective DNA Vaccination Against Marburg and Ebola."
In April 2015, we received a $44.2 million contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) to lead a consortium to develop multiple treatment and prevention approaches against Ebola. Other collaborators are MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca; GeneOne Life Sciences and its manufacturing subsidiary, VGXI, Inc.; and David B. Weiner, Ph.D., a director of our company, who also serves as executive vice president at the Wistar Institute and retired professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at The Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Emory University and Vanderbilt University. The previous collaboration agreement with GeneOne for Ebola was incorporated into this consortium funded by DARPA.
We are taking a multi-faceted approach to develop products to prevent and treat Ebola infection. These programs include development and early clinical testing of:

• | a therapeutic DNA-based monoclonal antibody product against the Ebola virus infection, which we believe has properties that best fit a response to the outbreak in that they could be designed and manufactured expediently on a large scale using common fermentation technology, are thermal-stable, and may provide more rapid therapeutic benefit;


• | a highly potent conventional protein-based therapeutic monoclonal antibody (mAb) product against Ebola virus infection; and


• | a DNA-based vaccine against Ebola.

Pathogen specific mAbs have emerged as a viable approach for immunoprophylaxis against Ebola and other pathogens where anti-viral drugs or vaccinations are not currently available. mAbs can be administered either just before or just after exposure to the pathogen and serve to combat the immediate effects of the pathogen. Unlike vaccines, immunoprophylaxis by 
14

mAbs does not develop long-term immune memory. Therefore, an ideal approach would include the administration of a mAb for immediate protection and a vaccine to train the immune system for longer-term protection.
Previous Ebola research studies have shown that monoclonal antibodies, such as ZMapp, could be useful in treating patients who have been infected with Ebola virus by selectively binding and neutralizing the virus in the body.
Our contract with DARPA covers the pre-clinical development costs for the dMAb products and protein mAb candidates, as well as GMP manufacturing costs and the Phase 1 clinical trial costs for the three product candidates described above. Our academic collaborators are leading Ebola research and medical centers. We have completed the vaccine development milestones contemplated by the DARPA grant and are on track to complete the protein Mab and the dMAb milestones in 2018. 
In May 2015, we and our collaborators initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of INO-4212, an Ebola DNA vaccine to evaluate safety, tolerability and immune responses in 75 healthy subjects divided into five study arms. INO-4212 consists of two optimized SynCon® DNA plasmids coding for the Ebola glycoprotein antigen from circulating Ebola strains from 1975-2014. The study was designed to evaluate INO-4212 and its components INO-4201 and INO-4202, alone or in combination with INO-9012, delivered into muscle or skin using our proprietary DNA delivery technology.
In March 2016, we reported initial results from the trial. Of 69 evaluated subjects, 64 (92.8%) seroconverted and mounted a strong antibody response to the Ebola glycoprotein antigen following the three dose immunization regimen; 48 subjects (69.6%) seroconverted after only two doses.
In the study arm using intradermal (skin) administration, 13 of 13 evaluable subjects (100%) generated antigen-specific antibody responses after only two doses, and all remained seropositive after three immunizations. Similarly, in the study arm receiving the vaccine with intramuscular administration in combination with plasmid IL-12, 13 of 13 evaluable subjects (100%) produced strong antibody responses after three immunizations, and 12 of 13 (92.3%) achieved strong antibody responses after only two immunizations.
The Ebola glycoprotein specific geometric mean antibody titers measured in the five cohorts ranged from over 2,000 to greater than 46,000. Significantly, a majority of vaccinated subjects in each of the five cohorts produced strong Ebola antigen specific T-cell responses as measured by interferon gamma ELISpot analysis.
INO-4212 was well tolerated, with no systemic serious adverse effects observed. Side effects, such as fever, joint pain, and low white blood cell counts have previously been reported following treatment with some viral vector based Ebola vaccines currently in development. Moreover, unlike the viral vectored vaccines which must be kept frozen, the INO-4212 formulation used in the trial was kept in a solution which was refrigerated at 2-8 degrees Celsius.
Detailed immunogenicity and safety data is being prepared for peer-reviewed publication.
In August 2016, we announced that enrollment of this study was being expanded to up to 200 subjects to further characterize and identify in humans the most optimal immunization regimen using intradermal (skin) delivery of the Ebola DNA vaccine. 
In April 2017, we reported preliminary results from the expanded Phase 1 trial. Across both stages of the trial, including both intramuscular and intradermal delivery, 95% (170/179) of evaluable subjects generated an Ebola-specific antibody immune response, with the mean antibody titer comparable or superior to those reported from viral vector-based Ebola vaccines. Our Ebola vaccine was also well tolerated in the second stages of the trial, with a favorable safety profile compared to viral vector-based Ebola vaccines, some of which have been associated with serious adverse events including myalgia, arthralgia, fever, and rash.
We expect to report additional data from our Ebola virus development programs in 2018.
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) Overview
MERS is a viral respiratory illness first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. MERS appears to have been transmitted from an animal reservoir to humans but human to human transmission has been confirmed. This communicable virus has not been shown to spread in a sustained way in communities, but rapid spread in the nosocomial setting, such as emergency rooms and/or hospitals without state-of-the-art infection control practices, can result in outbreaks with many cases, including superspreading events. Like the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003, which made approximately 8,000 people ill and was fatal in nearly 10% of those cases, MERS is caused by a coronavirus and appears to cause a severe lung infection. However, the case-fatality rate (death rate) of MERS has typically been between 30% and 40%, which is significantly higher than that of SARS. While the SARS epidemic in 2003 killed 10% of those who became ill from the SARS virus, MERS has killed approximately 36% of people who people who became ill from the MERS virus from 2012 to December 2017. MERS differs in that it also causes rapid kidney failure. Its high death rate has caused serious concern among global health officials.
Despite the continuing threat of MERS outbreaks, there are no licensed vaccines or treatments for MERS. Since the virus was first identified in Saudi Arabia in 2012, the World Health Organization reports 2,127 laboratory-confirmed cases of MERS 
15

and 757 deaths from MERS worldwide as of December 2017. Twenty seven countries have reported cases, including Korea where an outbreak in the summer of 2015 resulted in 186 cases and 38 deaths.
Preclinical and Clinical Development - MERS
In November 2013, we announced that preclinical testing of our SynCon® MERS vaccine candidate, GLS-5300, had induced robust and durable immune responses in mice, demonstrating the potential for such a vaccine to prevent and treat this deadly virus. DNA vaccine constructs targeting multiple MERS antigens were designed using our SynCon® vaccine platform with the goal to universally protect against multiple strains of MERS, which has been shown to have diverse genetic variants. These SynCon® constructs were administered via our CELLECTRA® electroporation-based delivery technology.
A consensus MERS "spike" protein vaccine construct was created based on multiple strains of the MERS virus.  Our MERS DNA vaccine was immunogenic in mice and seroconversion was observed in all animals. The antibodies generated by the vaccine in 100% of mice (20 of 20) were able to neutralize or completely block actual infection of MERS virus in the cells, demonstrating the protective potential of this vaccine. In contrast, none of the 10 unvaccinated mice in the control group generated neutralizing antibodies.
The vaccinations were also highly T-cell immunogenic, generating robust and broad T cell responses as extensively analyzed by the standardized T cell ELISPOT assay. The vaccine produced robust CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses against multiple epitopes of the MERS spike protein. This increased diversity and magnitude of cellular responses may be critical for effectively mitigating MERS infection.
We believe these preclinical findings are vital given the importance of neutralizing antibodies in preventing infection and the role T cells play in clearing infection by killing cells that harbor the virus.
In August 2015, we announced that our MERS vaccine had induced 100% protection from a live virus challenge in a preclinical study in mice, camels and monkeys, or non-human primates. In all three species, the vaccine induced robust immune responses capable of preventing the virus from infecting cells. We believe the data from camels is an important finding because camels represent not only a host reservoir of the disease, but also act as a mode of transmission to humans. In monkeys, all vaccinated animals in the study were protected from symptoms of MERS disease when challenged with a live MERS virus.
The preclinical results appeared in the peer-reviewed journal Science Translational Medicine in an article entitled, "A synthetic consensus anti-spike protein DNA vaccine induces protective immunity against Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus in non-human primates." 
In February 2016, we and our collaborator GeneOne commenced a Phase 1 clinical trial of GLS-5300 in 75 healthy volunteers at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) in Maryland. The primary and secondary goals of this first-in-man Phase 1 trial are to obtain safety and immunogenicity data. This trial represents the first MERS vaccine to be tested in humans for this disease that has no approved vaccines or treatments.
In December 2016, we announced that the International Vaccine Institute (IVI) will provide new funding and support to further advance the clinical development of GLS-5300. IVI will add technical, laboratory and financial support for GLS-5300 clinical trials in Korea with the goal to advance clinical testing toward emergency use authorization by the Korean government as well as authorities of other countries. This collaborative funding is part of a grant from the Samsung Foundation to IVI to support the development of a MERS vaccine for emergency use in Korea and internationally.
In February 2017, we reported results from the Phase 1 clinical trial of GLS-5300, in which high levels of binding antibodies were measured in 92% (57 of 62) of evaluated subjects after three vaccinations (84% after two doses; 44% after one dose). The vaccine was well tolerated, with no significant safety concerns observed to date.
HIV Preventive and Therapeutic Immune Therapies-PENNVAX®-GP
Since its discovery in 1981, HIV, the virus which causes AIDS, has killed more than 36 million people. In 2011, there were roughly 2.5 million new cases of HIV diagnosed. In 2012, approximately 35 million people were living with HIV worldwide. Each year in the United States, about 50,000 people become newly infected with HIV. At the end of 2010, 1.1 million people in the United States were living with HIV.
Effective vaccines have been actively pursued for over 30 years, without significant success. HIV represents one of the most confounding targets in medicine. The virus's high mutagenicity (ability to mutate) has made effective vaccine development very challenging. Its outer envelope, swathed in sugar molecules, is difficult to attack, and HIV strikes the very cells that the immune system launches to thwart such an infection. Although several drugs (anti-retrovirals) are available to treat the patients once they are infected, vaccines and immunotherapies are necessary to stop the spread of disease and perhaps reduce the need for anti-retroviral treatment.
16

Noting that many long-term survivors have high counts of killer CD8 T cells, the HIV vaccine and immunotherapy field has turned to stimulating the immune system to generate those cells. Recent HIV vaccine candidates used an adenovirus (a common human cold virus) genetically modified to contain code for HIV antigens to prevent viral replication. These vaccines have proven to not be effective. More recently, the RV-144 trial, which employed an ALVAC™ (canary pox) vaccine prime followed by a protein vaccine boost, demonstrated 30% efficacy in preventing acquisition of infection amongst the vaccinated population compared to the control group. Although the efficacy was relatively modest, the finding for the first time showed that an immunotherapy may be able to combat spread of HIV and has spurred the development of newer immunotherapy candidates. We believe, however, that a different approach is needed to develop an effective vaccine or immunotherapy for HIV.
PENNVAX®-GP is a developmental vaccine to prevent and treat HIV strains present in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America. Using our ASPIRE™ technology, it has been optimized to target two env antigens, as well as gag and pol antigens. This comprehensive targeting gives PENNVAX®-GP the potential to provide global coverage against HIV-1 subtypes. PENNVAX®-GP is delivered intramuscularly using the CELLECTRA® delivery device. The development of the PENNVAX®-GP program was funded by a seven-year $25 million NIAID contract to us and our collaborators.
In September 2015, the first patient was dosed in a Phase 1 trial to evaluate the safety and tolerability of PENNVAX®-GP. This trial was conducted in collaboration with the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN). The trial measured immune responses following administration of the vaccine in four groups of healthy subjects receiving the vaccine with and without an immune activator (IL-12) and delivered into muscle or skin using our CELLECTRA® delivery technology.
In May 2017, we announced results from the trial, in which PENNVAX®-GP produced among the highest overall levels of immune response rates (cellular and humoral) ever observed in a human clinical trial by an HIV vaccine. 
Overall, 71 of 76 (93%) evaluable vaccinated participants showed a CD4+ or CD8+ cellular immune response to at least one of the four vaccine antigens. Similarly, 62 of 66 (94%) evaluated participants demonstrated an env specific antibody response. None of the placebo recipients (0 of 9; 0%) had either a cellular or an antibody response in the study. Notably, amongst the participants receiving PENNVAX®-GP vaccine and IL-12 with intradermal immunization, 27 of 28 (96%) participants achieved a cellular response and 27 of 28 (96%) achieved an HIV env specific antibody response.
Amongst the evaluated participants receiving PENNVAX®-GP and IL-12 via intramuscular vaccination, 27 of 27 (100%) achieved a cellular response and 19 of 21 (90%) achieved an env specific antibody response. Similar immune responses and response rates were achieved via both intradermal and intramuscular administration of the vaccine, even though participants vaccinated via intradermal administration received 1/5th of the dose of vaccine compared to those vaccinated via intramuscular administration.
In addition to our NIAID contract that funded our Phase 1 clinical trial of PENNVAX®-GP, in 2015, we and our collaborators were awarded an additional $16 million Integrated Preclinical/Clinical AIDS Vaccine Development (IPCAVD) grant from the NIAID. We will use this additional grant to design and test new PENNVAX® envelope constructs with our DNA-based immune activator encoding novel cytokine genes in a prime-boost strategy with recombinant HIV envelope proteins. Our collaborators will assess different combinations in preclinical models with the goal of generating high levels of neutralizing antibodies mirroring the robust CD8+ T cell responses generated by our PENNVAX®-B DNA vaccine in previously published clinical studies. The overall goal of this project is to further build upon this important HIV vaccine approach as well as to gain fundamental insight into new technologies to improve vaccination outcomes.
In March 2017, Inovio and its collaborators received an additional multi-year $7.0 million grant from NIAID to develop a single or combination therapy using PENNVAX®-GP, with the goal of attaining long-term HIV remission in the absence of antiviral drugs. This is a two-step clinical study in HIV-positive subjects to assess PENNVAX®-GP with INO-9012 alone and with the addition of a PD-1 checkpoint inhibitor. All trials will be randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled assessments of PENNVAX®-GP and will be conducted at the University of California in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
HIV dMAb®
In July 2016, we announced that our DNA-based monoclonal antibody technology will be deployed to develop products which could be used alone and in combination with other immunotherapies in the pursuit of new ways to treat and potentially cure infection from HIV. See the section below titled "Synthetic DNA-based Monoclonal Antibodies" for more details on this technology.
Universal Influenza Immunotherapy
Conventional vaccines are strain-specific and have limited ability to protect against genetic shifts in the influenza strains they target. They are therefore modified annually in anticipation of the next flu season’s new strain(s). If a significantly different, unanticipated new strain emerges, such as the 2009 swine-origin pandemic strain, then the current vaccines provide little or no protective capability. In contrast, we believe that our design approach to characterize a broad consensus of antigens across variant strains of each influenza sub-type creates the ability to protect against new strains that have common genetic 
17

roots, even though they are not perfectly matched. By formulating a single immunotherapy with some or all of the key sub-types, protection may be achieved against seasonal as well as pandemic strains such as swine flu or pandemic-potential strains, such as avian influenza. We are focused on developing DNA-based influenza immunotherapies able to provide broad protection against known as well as newly emerging, unknown seasonal and pandemic influenza strains.
Instead of targeting a specific strain or strains, we have developed a universal vaccine strategy to deal with ever-changing flu threats. Using our SynCon® process, our scientists have designed immunotherapies targeting an optimal consensus of HA, NA, and NP proteins derived from multiple strains of each of the Type A sub-types H1N1, H2N2, H3N2 (these three influenza sub-types having been responsible for the majority of seasonal and pandemic influenza outbreaks in humans during the last century), as well as H5N1. In theory, consensus HA vaccine constructs from each sub-type, delivered using our electroporation device, could potentially protect immunized subjects from 90-95% of all human seasonal and pandemic influenza concerns. Additionally, we have also developed an optimal consensus of HA sequences derived from influenza Type B strains. Type B is one of three components of current seasonal influenza vaccinations. Using our SynCon® constructs, we have now developed immunotherapy elements that can target both pandemic-risk (H5N1, H7N9, H1N1) as well as seasonal influenza strains (H3N2, H1N1, influenza B).
Moreover, using our approach the immunotherapies might not have to be administered annually after the first few priming sessions. Rather, the same combination could be used to boost the immune system every few years.
In January 2018, we announced results from a preclinical study in which our synthetic vaccine approach, using a collection of synthetic DNA antigens, generated broad protective antibody responses against all major deadly strains of H1 influenza viruses from the last 100 years, including the virus that caused “Spanish Flu” in 1918 in multiple animal models, including mice, guinea pigs and non-human primates. The vaccine also protected 100% of immunized ferrets from a lethal virus challenge. The preclinical results were detailed in a paper published in the journal Vaccine entitled, “Broad cross-protective anti-hemagglutination responses elicited by influenza microconsensus DNA vaccine."
We are seeking additional grant and/or collaboration funding to further advance this program.
Immunotherapies for Biodefense and Biosecurity
A number of infectious agents that are relatively rare today are poised for an upsurge in incidence by either “natural” or terrorism-related means. For example, natural threats are posed by the influenza strains H5N1 and H7N9. At the same time, an engineered influenza virus for intentional release would pose a significant human threat.
Since 2001, the United States government has spent or allocated over a billion dollars in funding to address the threat of biological weapons. United States funding for bioweapons-related activities focuses primarily on research for and acquisition of medicines for defense. Biodefense funding also goes toward stockpiling protective equipment, increased surveillance and detection of biological agents, and improving state and hospital preparedness. The increase in this type of funding is mainly due to the Project BioShield Act adopted in 2004.
There are opportunities to secure development funding and for proof-of principle immunotherapy studies for bio-warfare pathogens. We have secured funding from the U.S. government for these projects.
We continue to actively pursue grant and contract funding from the NIH, Department of Defense and other government funding agencies as an important source of non-dilutive funding to support development of specific technologies that are broadly applicable across multiple product development programs in the areas of cancer, infectious diseases and biodefense. Based on various initiatives and with the support of NIH funding we are an active collaborator with the Department of Defense (U.S. Army) and continue research and development of DNA-based immunotherapies delivered via our proprietary electroporation system. Specifically, our projects are focused on identifying immunotherapy candidates with the potential to provide rapid, robust immunity to protect against bio-warfare and bioterror attacks as well as development of our electroporation devices.
In October 2014, we announced that DARPA had awarded $12.2 million to our scientists and those from the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania and MedImmune to develop and assess dMAb products for influenza and antibiotic resistant bacteria in preclinical studies. This collaboration aims to demonstrate that DNA plasmids can activate sufficient quantities of disease-specific monoclonal antibodies in the body to be protective against a pathogen challenge. See the section below titled "Synthetic DNA-based Monoclonal Antibodies" for more details on our dMAb programs.
Ebola grant
In January 2016, we received a $500,000 grant from the U.S. Army’s SBIR program to further advance the development of our next-generation delivery device capable of simultaneously administering multiple vaccines via a skin-surface, needle-free electroporation delivery. The primary goal of this effort is to further advance and commercialize a needle and pain-free electroporation device to deliver products from our portfolio of biodefense and commercial infectious disease vaccines including those for MERS, Ebola, HIV, influenza, and RSV, particularly for prophylactic vaccination. Such a device could facilitate rapid vaccination of U.S. troops stationed around the world against multiple infectious diseases and protect civilian 
18

populations from pandemic threats. Initial testing of a prototype design has already yielded excellent antigen expression and immunogenicity from the dermal tissue being accessed using this novel non-invasive electroporation delivery concept.
Synthetic DNA-based Monoclonal Antibodies Program
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have become one of the most valuable therapeutic technologies of recent years. In 2012, global sales of mAbs exceeded $50 billion. Among the top 10 best-selling drugs in 2012, six were monoclonal antibodies, each with annual sales exceeding $5 billion.
mAbs are designed to enhance the immune system's ability to regulate cell functions. They are designed to bind to a very specific epitope (area) of an antigen or cell surface target and can bind to almost any selected target. They have the ability to alert the immune system to attack and kill specific cancer cells (as in the case of Yervoy®) or block certain biochemical pathways (such as those leading to rheumatoid arthritis, as in the case of Humira®). However, mAb technology has limitations. As a passive immunotherapy, meaning they are manufactured outside the body, mAbs require costly large-scale laboratory development and production. Additional limitations include high cost to develop and manufacture, their limited duration of in vivo potency, and a pharmacokinetic profile that can result in toxicity. We have created DNA based monoclonal antibodies that we believe overcome many of the limitations associated with conventional mAb technology.
Using our core platform technology, we encode the DNA sequence for a specific monoclonal antibody in a DNA plasmid. We deliver the plasmid directly into cells of the body using electroporation, enabling these cells to manufacture the mAbs in vivo, - unlike conventional mAb technology that requires manufacture outside of the body. We believe this approach provides potentially significant advantages in terms of lower production costs, as well as the ability to target a pharmacokinetic profile that provides control in terms of dosing regimen, peak responses, duration of responses, and toxicity.
We expect to design dMAb product candidates not only for new disease targets not currently addressable with conventional mAbs, but also targets of existing, commercially available mAb products. We have already designed and produced dMAb product candidates targeting cancer mechanisms including checkpoint inhibition, anti-cancer pathways and anti-Tregs, as well as prophylactic and therapeutic dMAb product candidates for infectious diseases including Ebola, influenza, antibiotic resistant bacteria, dengue and Chikungunya. When the mAb binds to an infectious disease receptor, the immune system then generates natural killer cells and macrophages to clear the virus or bacteria-bound mAbs.
Proof of Concept
Our first published research on a DNA-based on monoclonal antibody was presented in October 2013 in Human Vaccines & Immunotherapeutics in a paper entitled, “Optimized and enhanced DNA plasmid vector based in vivo construction of a neutralizing anti-HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein Fab.” In a preclinical study, a single administration in mice of a highly optimized dMAb® HIV immunotherapy generated antibody molecules in the bloodstream that possessed desirable functional activity, including high antigen-binding and HIV-neutralization capabilities, against diverse strains of HIV viruses. In the study, this delivery strategy resulted in an increase in Fab levels in as little as 48 hours, when compared with protein-based immunization.
A second paper was published in July 2015 in Scientific Reports, a Nature Publishing Group journal, in the paper, "Protection against dengue disease by synthetic nucleic acid antibody prophylaxis/immunotherapy." In this study, a single intramuscular injection of a DNA plasmid encoding a monoclonal antibody targeting dengue protected mice subsequently exposed to the dengue virus. The protection conferred by the monoclonal antibodies expressed by these dMAb product candidates was very rapid, with 100% survival in mice challenged with lethal enhanced dengue disease less than a week after dMAb administration. While conventional vaccine and monoclonal antibody technologies have shown limited ability to provide an effective solution to dengue to date, the unique attributes and data generated by dMAb immunotherapies show their potential to provide a needed solution. Furthermore, this short time frame to achieve full protection is significantly more rapid than vaccine-driven protection, which can take weeks to months to reach peak efficacy levels.
A paper published in March 2016 in The Journal of Infectious Diseases entitled, “Rapid and long-term immunity elicited by DNA encoded antibody prophylaxis and DNA vaccination against Chikungunya virus,” discussed the results of our preclinical study in which animals transfected with our DNA-based mAb targeting Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) exhibited the specific ability to bind to the CHIKV envelope antigen, and this serum possessed CHIKV-neutralizing activity. CHIKV is a serious mosquito-borne alpha-virus responsible for several recent epidemics in tropical Africa and Asia. In mid-2015, the CDC reported that suspected or confirmed cases of Chikungunya had reached 1.74 million in 45 countries or territories in the Americas. There is currently no vaccine or therapeutic against this virus. In the study, the treatment of the animals with anti-CHIKV mAb plasmids protected 100% of the treated animals from a lethal injection of CHIKV virus while 100% of the control animals died. The treated animals were also spared virus-related morbidity, as measured by dramatic weight loss and lethargy.
Next Steps
19

In October 2014, we announced that the DARPA had awarded a $12.2 million grant to our scientists and those from the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania and MedImmune in order to develop and assess dMAb product candidates in preclinical studies.
This collaboration aims to demonstrate that DNA plasmids can activate sufficient quantities of disease-specific monoclonal antibodies in the body to be protective against a pathogen challenge. Using the capabilities and advantages of DNA plasmids delivered using electroporation, the team is constructing and evaluating multiple dMAb product candidates focused on influenza virus and antibiotic resistant bacteria, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus.
In 2016, we expanded the collaboration to include The Wistar Institute after the collaborating investigator, Dr. David Weiner, a member of our board of directors, moved to the Institute. 
Depending on the outcome of the preclinical studies, we and our collaborators may seek to advance a dMAb product candidate into clinical trials, if we are able to obtain additional governmental or non-governmental funding to do so. 
As described above, in April 2015, we received a grant from DARPA to lead a consortium to develop multiple treatment and prevention approaches against Ebola. The aim of the research funded by this grant is to compare combinations of a DNA vaccine with conventional or DNA-based monoclonal antibodies. 
In July 2016, we announced that our DNA-based monoclonal antibody technology will be deployed to develop product candidates which could be used alone and in combination with other immunotherapies in the pursuit of new ways to treat and potentially cure infection from HIV. Funding for this research is part of a $23 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to our collaborator, The Wistar Institute.
As described above, we have also received a sub-grant through The Wistar Institute to develop a DNA-based monoclonal antibody designed to provide a fast-acting treatment against Zika infection and its debilitating effects. 
Electroporation Delivery Technology
The essence of our platform is to design and inject a DNA plasmid encoded for a target antigen or monoclonal antibody into tissue of the body and most pertinently, into cells, to enable the intracellular machinery that normally produces useful proteins for the functioning of the body to temporarily produce the target antigen or monoclonal antibody. An antigen will then induce the immune system to produce polyclonal antibodies or T cells with the ability to perform their preventive or therapeutic functions. Monoclonal antibodies generated in this manner can bind to targeted cells and enable the immune system to clear these cells. Fundamental to this mechanism functioning well and providing clinical utility is that there be significant cellular uptake of the DNA plasmids.
Electroporation uses controlled, millisecond electrical pulses to create temporary pores in the cell membrane and allow significant cellular uptake of a synthetic DNA immunotherapy previously injected into muscle or skin. This uptake can be up to a thousand times greater than the injection of a DNA plasmid alone without other delivery mechanisms. The cellular machinery then uses the DNA’s instructions to produce the encoded antigen or monoclonal antibody.
We are a leader in refining the methods and conditions for using in vivo electroporation to enable cellular transfection and significant uptake of a locally injected biologic material. In multiple clinical trials, our electroporation technology has shown the ability to effectively deliver DNA-based immunotherapies to achieve best-in-class immune responses. The delivery of our synthetic DNA immunotherapies using our electroporation devices has to date shown a favorable safety profile, without serious adverse events and only mild local injection-related side effects such as redness and swelling. Electroporation is tolerable without anesthetic, and because it does not induce unwanted immune responses, it can be repeatedly administered for booster vaccinations.
Choice of Tissue for DNA Delivery
Skeletal muscle has been a core focus for delivery of DNA-based immunotherapies via electroporation because it is mainly composed of large elongated cells with multiple nuclei. Muscle cells are non-dividing, hence longer-term expression can be obtained without integration of the gene of interest into the genome. Muscle cells have been shown to have a capacity for secretion of proteins into the blood stream. Secreted therapeutic proteins may therefore act systemically and produce therapeutic effects in distant tissues of the body. In this respect, the muscle functions as a factory for the production of the biopharmaceutical needed by the body. In our Phase 2 clinical trial of VGX-3100 for HPV-related cervical dysplasia, intramuscular delivery by electroporation of DNA-encoded antigens induced both humoral (antibody) and cellular (T cell) immune responses. We envision that delivery of DNA by electroporation to muscle cells will circumvent the costly and complicated production procedures of viral gene delivery vectors, bacterial gene delivery vectors, protein-based drugs, conventional vaccines and monoclonal antibodies. This approach may provide long-term stable expression of a therapeutic protein or monoclonal antibody at a sustained level.
While we have generated pre-clinical and clinical evidence that intramuscular electroporation-based DNA delivery will be effective for a number of immunotherapies, electroporation of the skin may also be a relevant route of administration. Skin 
20

or intradermal administration is important and is becoming an attractive site for immunization given its high density of antigen presenting cells (APCs). Unlike muscle, skin is the first line of defense against most pathogens and is therefore very rich in immune cells and molecules. Skin specifically contains certain cells that are known to help in generating a robust immune response. With intradermal administration of electroporation, we may be able to demonstrate a comparable immune response to muscle delivery. Drug delivery into skin, or dermal tissue, is attractive given that the skin is the largest, most accessible, and most easily monitored organ of the human body, and it is highly immuno-competent (able to recognize antigens and mount an immune response to them).
Our CELLECTRA® Delivery Systems
There are several configurations in the CELLECTRA® device family. The first configuration covers intramuscular (IM) delivery of DNA; the second covers intradermal/subcutaneous delivery (ID) of DNA. Devices with these configurations have been validated, manufactured under Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and are being used in human clinical trials. We have filed a device master file (MAF) with the FDA covering the use of the CELLECTRA® devices in human clinical trials. These devices are intended to be used in combination with a DNA plasmid-based immunotherapy.
Our CELLECTRA®-SP devices combine the functionality of our current generation of skin and intramuscular electroporation devices in clinical testing with enhanced form, design and portability. All components of the pulse generator and applicator are integrated into a cordless, rechargeable device. The rechargeable battery can enable immunization of several hundred subjects, making the device useful for mass vaccinations. The devices are designed to accommodate different electrode arrays to meet the requirements of the particular immunotherapy and targeted tissue for delivery.
In preparation for our Phase 3 clinical trial of VGX-3100 and anticipated commercial use, we designed and manufactured a new electroporation device, CELLECTRA® 5PSP, a fully automated, smaller and user-friendly device. The new CELLECTRA®-5PSP device is being used in our ongoing VGX-3100 Phase 3 trial, which started in June 2017. 
Next Generation Electroporation Research and Devices
We are developing new delivery systems and technologies designed to optimally deliver our DNA-based immunotherapies and vaccines. All of our current delivery systems described above can increase levels of gene expression, or production of the immune-stimulating protein that the immunotherapy was coded to produce, of DNA immunotherapies by more than one thousand times compared to delivery of DNA immunotherapies via conventional injection alone. Our SynCon® immunotherapies delivered into muscle or skin tissue with our electroporation systems have generated robust immune responses in humans using different SynCon® immunotherapy products for HPV-related precancers (also generating statistically significant efficacy in a controlled Phase 2b study) and cancers, Zika, Ebola, influenza (H5N1 and H1N1) and HIV, as well as against other diseases in animal models.
While our current intramuscular (IM) delivery technologies are well tolerated, we are also advancing next generation, minimally invasive intradermal electroporation delivery devices. One intradermal (ID) device penetrates no more than 3 mm into the target tissue, compared to intramuscular devices that go deeper. The positive immunological effects in preclinical animal models of the optimized electroporation parameters of this minimally invasive ID EP delivery device were highlighted in September 2012 in Human Gene Therapy in a paper entitled, “Intradermal DNA vaccination enhanced by low-current electroporation improves antigen expression and induces robust cellular and humoral immune responses.” The optimized conditions decreased required immunotherapy dose levels, increased tolerability of the vaccination, and increased the breadth of viable vaccine targets. This research was funded in part by a $25 million HIV vaccine development contract from the NIAID and a $3.1 million National Institutes of Health Director's Transformative Research Award for universal flu vaccine development.
In March 2011, we received a U.S. Department of Defense Small Business Innovation Research Grant to test the feasibility of delivering unique DNA vaccines by intradermal electroporation simultaneously to two or more spatially distinct sites on the body. Results from this research revealed that this device could allow for the delivery of multi-plasmid formulations without the risk of interference of immune responses from combination vaccines that are formulated together. This could be useful for combination immunotherapies that are rapidly formulated such as in response to emerging infectious disease threats or pandemics and could overcome the issue of limited dosing often associated with intradermal delivery. Results from this study were published in Human Vaccines Immunotherapeutics in a paper titled, “A multi-head intradermal electroporation device allows for tailored and increased dose DNA immunotherapy delivery to the skin.”
A second ID approach is surface electroporation (SEP) using a device that sits on the skin and uses a virtually undetectable scratch to facilitate electroporation and intracellular delivery of the immunotherapy.
In October 2010, research on this minimally-invasive DNA vaccine delivery device was published in Gene Therapy in the paper, "Prototype development and preclinical immunogenicity analysis of a novel minimally invasive electroporation device." Using voltages averaging roughly seven times less than our current devices, this very low voltage device, which does not penetrate the skin, further enhances the previously established tolerability of our electroporation devices. DNA vaccines 
21

delivered using this device produced strong antibody and T-cell immune responses and achieved protection from lethal challenge in multiple animal models including non-human primates.
In April 2012, we received a grant from the U.S. Army’s Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) to advance the development of a low-cost, non-invasive surface electroporation delivery device and test its utility in combination with our novel synthetic DNA vaccines against viruses with bioterrorism potential, including hanta, puumala, arenavirus and pandemic influenza. This project was a continuation of the DOD grant awarded in 201l. The objective was to further advance and validate this device and the resulting immune responses in appropriate animal models. The research also investigated the development and manufacture of low-cost sterile disposables for the device and the possibility of integrating dermal injection capabilities into a combined inject/EP device platform.
In January 2016, we received a $500,000 SBIR grant to further advance the development of a device capable of simultaneously administering multiple vaccines via skin-surface, needle-free electroporation delivery.
We have also been researching other avenues for needle-free, contactless electroporation technology for immunotherapy delivery. In February 2011, Human Vaccines published our paper entitled, “Piezoelectric permeabilization of mammalian dermal tissue for in vivo DNA delivery leads to enhanced protein expression and increased immunogenicity.” This innovative electroporation method is based on the generation of an electric field or electric potential by certain materials in response to applied mechanical stress.
With the advancement of these devices our aim is to make electroporation delivery amenable to mass prophylactic vaccination by decreasing dose levels, increasing tolerability of the vaccination, increasing the breadth of viable immunotherapy targets, and enhancing portability. Based on our data from studies of influenza, HIV, malaria, and smallpox antigens, we believe that DNA delivery with this newer generation of ID delivery including SEP devices yields levels of immunogenicity in terms of both antibody and T cell responses and/or efficacy against a virus challenge that are comparable to intramuscular electroporation devices currently in the clinic.
In March 2016, we acquired needle-free jet injection technology, devices and intellectual property from Bioject Medical Technologies Inc. We are developing an integrated non-invasive delivery device combining Bioject’s jet injection technology with our needle-free, skin-surface electroporation technology. Bioject’s needle-free devices, which use high pressure gas or springs to propel liquid medicine into skin, have been observed to have desirable utility, safety, and tolerability attributes in preclinical studies and clinical trials. Under a prior research agreement, we assessed the Bioject technology with our new EP delivery system and generated compelling antigen expression and immune responses in animal studies.
License, Collaboration and Supply Agreements 
We have entered into various arrangements with corporate, academic, and government collaborators, licensors, licensees and others. These arrangements are summarized below.
MedImmune
In August 2015, we entered into a strategic cancer vaccine collaboration and license agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca. Under the agreement, MedImmune acquired exclusive rights to our immunotherapy candidate INO-3112 (renamed MEDI0457), which targets cancers caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18.
Under the terms of the agreement, MedImmune made an upfront payment of $27.5 million to us in the third quarter of 2015. MedImmune will fund all development costs. The agreement also calls for potential future payments totaling up to $700 million upon reaching specified development and commercial milestones. We are entitled to receive up to double-digit tiered royalties on MEDI0457 product sales. 
MedImmune is studying MEDI0457 in combination with its PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cancer associated with HPV. On December 28, 2017, we received a $7.0 million milestone payment from MedImmune, which was triggered by the initiation of the Phase 2 portion of this ongoing clinical trial.
Within the broader collaboration, we and MedImmune may co-develop up to two new, additional DNA-based cancer vaccine products not included in our current product pipeline, which MedImmune will have the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize those candidates. We will receive development, regulatory and commercialization milestone payments and will be eligible to receive royalties on worldwide net sales for these additional cancer vaccine products.
GeneOne
In September 2014, we and GeneOne announced a collaboration in which the companies will co-develop our DNA-based Ebola vaccine through a Phase 1 clinical trial. In April 2015, the collaborators received an award from DARPA to further advance the Ebola project. The previous collaboration agreement with GeneOne for Ebola vaccine was incorporated 
22

into this consortium funded by DARPA. In May 2015, a Phase 1 study of the DNA vaccine part of the project was initiated. Enrollment of this study has been completed. Details of this project are provided under "Ebola" above.
In May 2015, we announced that we will advance a DNA vaccine for MERS into a Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers in a collaboration with GeneOne. Under the terms of the agreement, GeneOne will be responsible for funding all preclinical and clinical studies through Phase 1.  In return, GeneOne will receive up to a 35% milestone-based ownership interest in the MERS immunotherapy upon achievement of the last milestone event of completion of the Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity study.  In January 2016, the collaborators announced the initiation of recruitment for the Phase 1 study in partnership with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) in Maryland, where the trial is being conducted.
In January 2016, we and GeneOne expanded the collaboration agreement to test and advance our DNA-based vaccine for preventing and treating Zika virus.
ApolloBio
In December 2017, we entered into an Amended and Restated License and Collaboration Agreement with Beijing Apollo Saturn Biological Technology Limited, a corporation organized under the laws of China, or ApolloBio. Under the terms of this License and Collaboration Agreement, we granted to ApolloBio the exclusive right to develop and commercialize VGX-3100, our DNA immunotherapy product candidate designed to treat pre-cancers caused by HPV, within the territories of China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. The territory may be expanded to include Korea in the event that no patent covering VGX-3100 issues in China within the three years following the Effective Date (as defined below).
As part of the License and Collaboration Agreement, we have granted to ApolloBio an option to negotiate an exclusive license to research, develop and commercialize MEDI0457 in the event of termination of our current collaboration with MedImmune for the development of MEDI0457 in the territory covered by the License and Collaboration Agreement. As part of the collaboration, ApolloBio will fund all clinical development costs within the licensed territory, and the parties will discuss in good faith the inclusion of clinical trial sites in China as part of our ongoing Phase 3 clinical development program for VGX-3100.
Under the License and Collaboration Agreement, ApolloBio will pay us an upfront payment of $23.0 million, such payment to be made within three business days following the date of approval of the License and Collaboration Agreement by the board of directors and shareholders of ApolloBio and other regulatory approvals, or the “Effective Date”, which Effective Date is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2018. The payment is subject to Chinese regulatory approval as well. In the event that such upfront payment is not made on or before April 7, 2018, we have the right to terminate the License and Collaboration Agreement in its entirety.
In addition to the upfront payment, we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $20.0 million upon the achievement of specified milestones related to the regulatory approval of VGX-3100 in the United States, China and Korea. In the event that VGX-3100 is approved for marketing in these territories, we will be entitled to receive royalty payments based on a tiered percentage of annual net sales, with such percentage being in the low- to mid-teens, subject to reduction in the event of generic competition in a particular territory. ApolloBio’s obligation to pay royalties will continue for 10 years after the first commercial sale in a particular territory or, if later, until the expiration of the last-to-expire patent covering the licensed products in the specified territory. The License and Collaboration Agreement, once effective, will continue in force until ApolloBio has no remaining royalty obligations.
Agreements Focused on Advancing Immuno-Oncology 
In May 2017, we entered into a supply agreement with Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, for Genentech to provide TECENTRIQ® (atezolizumab) for use in our clinical trials evaluating INO-5401, a T cell activating immunotherapy encoding multiple antigens, and INO-9012, an immune activator encoding IL-12, in combination with TECENTRIQ® in approximately 80 patients with advanced bladder cancer. We will manage and fund the costs of the multi-center, open-label trial. 
In May 2017, we entered into a clinical study and supply agreement with Regeneron to provide its PD-1 inhibitor, REGN2810, for use in our clinical trials evaluating INO-5401 and INO-9012, in combination with REGN2810 in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Under the terms of the agreement, we will conduct and fund the trial based upon a mutually agreed upon study design. 
In January 2018, we entered into a Clinical Collaboration Agreement with the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy to undertake clinical evaluation of novel combination regimens within the field of immuno-oncology. We expect to benefit from the Parker Institute’s innovative research model, which brings together leading academic cancer institutions and companies to share resources, data and technology, accelerate research through unifying and managing clinical trial design, and conduct multi-center clinical trials. The goal of our collaboration is to design studies that have the potential to address cancers with high unmet need. The initial trial under consideration would address muscle-invasive bladder cancer with INO-5401 in combination with other immunotherapies.
23

Under the agreement, the Parker Institute will have responsibility for clinical study execution, working in collaboration with its established network of clinical academic and industry cancer centers. We will provide financial contributions if the product candidate studied under the collaboration reaches the initiation of a Phase 3 clinical trial.
In August 2016, we incorporated a subsidiary, GENEOS Therapeutics, Inc., to develop and commercialize neoantigen based personalized cancer therapies. We currently own 100% of the outstanding equity of GENEOS, although GENEOS plans to raise capital from the issuance of equity to third parties, which would reduce our ownership percentage. While we leverage our SynCon® immunotherapy and CELLECTRA® electroporation technologies to break tolerance and create cancer products targeting shared tumor specific antigens, GENEOS will focus exclusively on leveraging our immunotherapy technology platform to advance the field of patient-specific neoantigen therapies for cancer. We believe that our clinically validated DNA-based platform is well suited for advancing individualized therapies due to its rapid product design and manufacturing benefits, ability to combine multiple neoantigens into formulations, and generation of potent killer T cell responses that are needed to drive clinical efficacy. We have exclusively licensed our SynCon® immunotherapy and CELLECTRA® electroporation technology platform to GENEOS to be used in the field of personalized, neoantigen based therapy for cancer.
Core DNA Immunotherapy Technology and Product License
In March 2016, we entered into a collaborative research agreement with the Wistar Institute for preventive and therapeutic DNA-based immunotherapy applications and products for cancers and infectious diseases developed by David B. Weiner, Ph.D., and his Wistar laboratory. We will have the exclusive right to in-license new intellectual property developed in this collaboration.
We also have license agreements for intellectual property relating to DNA-based immunotherapy technology and multiple products developed at the University of Pennsylvania, or UPenn. Under the terms of the license agreement with UPenn, we have obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop multiple DNA plasmids and constructs with the potential to treat and/or prevent cancer therapeutic vaccines targeting WT1, prostate cancer, other undisclosed cancer antigen targets, HPV, HBV, HCV, HIV, influenza, RSV (respiratory syncytial virus), cytomegalovirus, Chikungunya, dengue fever, malaria, herpes viruses, MERS, Ebola and the family of Filovirus such as Marburg, tuberculosis, foot-and-mouth disease, intestinal infections including Clostridium difficile, and MRSA (methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus). In addition, the amended agreement provides us with global rights to DNA-based monoclonal antibodies and new chemokine and cytokine molecular adjuvant technologies.
This agreement, as amended to date, provides for royalty payments, based on future sales of licensed products, to UPenn.
The Wistar Institute Collaboration for Programs against Tuberculosis and Malaria
In early 2018, we announced that we will collaborate with The Wistar Institute to advance two novel SynCon® vaccine programs against tuberculosis (TB) and malaria, fully funded by more than $4.6 million in total grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Grants from the Gates Foundation (for malaria) and from the National Institute of Allergy & Infectious Diseases (for TB) will support our efforts to develop new DNA vaccines employing our ASPIRE platform. 
Competition
As we develop and seek to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, we face and will continue to encounter competition with an array of existing or development-stage drug and immunotherapy approaches targeting diseases we are pursuing. We are aware of various established enterprises, including major pharmaceutical companies, broadly engaged in vaccine/immunotherapy research and development. These include Janssen Pharmaceuticals (part of J&J), Sanofi-Aventis, GlaxoSmithKline plc (following its acquisition of Novartis Vaccines), Merck, Pfizer, and our collaborator MedImmune. There are also various development-stage biotechnology companies involved in different vaccine and immunotherapy technologies including Aduro Biotech, Advaxis, BioNTech, Curevac, Dynavax, Kite (recently acquired by Gilead), Juno, Moderna, and Novavax. If these companies are successful in developing their technologies, it could materially and adversely affect our business and our future growth prospects.
Specifically, Bavarian Nordic, Merck and GlaxoSmithKline have commercialized preventive vaccines against HPV to protect against cervical cancer. Some companies are seeking to treat early HPV infections or low grade cervical dysplasias. LEEP is the current standard of care for treating high grade cervical dysplasia. Advaxis and Kite have therapeutic cervical cancer product candidates under development. Many companies are pursuing different approaches to prostate, breast, lung and other cancers we are targeting.
We also compete more specifically with companies seeking to utilize antigen-encoding DNA delivered with electroporation or other DNA delivery technologies such as viral vectors or lipid vectors to induce in vivo generated antigen 
24

production and immune responses to prevent or treat various diseases. These competitive technologies have shown promise, but they each also have their unique obstacles to overcome. 
Viral DNA Delivery
This technology utilizes a virus as a carrier to deliver genetic material into target cells. The method is efficient for delivering immunotherapy antigens and has the advantage of mimicking real viral infection so that the recipient will mount a broad immune response against the immunotherapy. The greatest limitation of the technology stems from problems with unwanted immune responses against the viral vector, limiting its use to patients who have not been previously exposed to the viral vector and making repeated administration difficult. In addition, complexity and safety concerns increase their cost and complicate regulatory approval.
Lipid DNA Delivery
A number of lipid formulations have been developed that increase the effect of DNA/RNA immunotherapies. These work by either increasing uptake of the DNA/RNA into cells or by acting as an adjuvant, alerting the immune system. While there has been progress in this field, lipid delivery tends to be less efficient than viral vectors and is hampered by concerns regarding toxicity and increased complexity.
DNA Immunotherapy Delivery With Electroporation
There are other companies with electroporation intellectual property and devices. We believe we have significant competitive advantages over other companies focused on electroporation for multiple reasons:

• | We have an extensive history and experience in developing the methods and devices that optimize the use of electroporation in conjunction with DNA-based agents. This experience has been validated with multiple sets of interim data from multiple clinical studies assessing DNA-based immunotherapies and vaccines against cancers and infectious disease.


• | We have a broad product line of electroporation instruments designed to enable DNA delivery in tumors, muscle, and skin.


• | We have been proactive in filing for patents, as well as acquiring and licensing additional patents, to expand our global patent estate.

If any of our competitors develop products with efficacy or safety profiles significantly better than our product candidates, we may not be able to commercialize our products, and sales of any of our commercialized products could be harmed. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Competitors may develop products earlier, obtain FDA approvals for products more rapidly, or develop products that are more effective than those under development by us. We will seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive; however, research and development by others may render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive, or result in treatments or cures superior to ours.
Our competitive position will be affected by the disease indications addressed by our product candidates and those of our competitors, the timing of market introduction for these products and the stage of development of other technologies to address these disease indications. For us and our competitors, proprietary technologies, the ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and with the desired results, and the ability to obtain timely regulatory approvals to market these product candidates are likely to be significant competitive factors. Other important competitive factors will include the efficacy, safety, ease of use, reliability, availability and price of products and the ability to fund operations during the period between technological conception and commercial sales.
The FDA and other regulatory agencies may expand current requirements for public disclosure of DNA-based product development data, which may harm our competitive position with foreign and United States companies developing DNA-based products for similar indications.
Government Regulation
DNA Vaccine Product Regulation
Any pharmaceutical products we develop will require regulatory clearances prior to clinical trials and additional regulatory approvals prior to commercialization. New gene-based products for vaccine or therapeutic applications are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. Our potential products will be regulated as biological products that are used to treat or prevent disease. In the United States, drugs are subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act. Biological products, in addition to being subject to provisions of the FDC Act, are regulated in the United States under the Public Health Service Act. Both statutes and related regulations govern, among other things, testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, and other promotional practices.
25

Obtaining FDA approval or comparable approval from similar agencies in other countries is a costly and time-consuming process. Generally, FDA approval requires that pre-clinical studies be conducted in the laboratory and in animal model systems to gain preliminary information on efficacy and to identify any major safety concerns. In the United States, the results of these studies are submitted as a part of an IND application which the FDA must review and allow before human clinical trials can start. The IND application includes a detailed description of the proposed clinical investigations.
A company must submit an IND application or equivalent application in other countries for each proposed product and must conduct clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product necessary to obtain FDA approval or comparable approval from similar agencies in other countries. For example, in the United States, the FDA receives reports on the progress of each phase of clinical testing and may require the modification, suspension, or termination of clinical trials if an unwarranted risk is presented to patients.
To obtain FDA approval prior to marketing a pharmaceutical product in the United States typically requires several phases of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Clinical trials are the means by which experimental treatments are tested in humans, and are conducted following pre-clinical testing. Clinical trials may be conducted within the United States or in foreign countries. If clinical trials are conducted in foreign countries, the products under development as well as the trials are subject to regulations of the FDA and/or its counterparts in the other countries. Upon successful completion of clinical trials, approval to market the treatment for a particular patient population may be requested from the FDA in the United States and/or its counterparts in other countries.
Clinical trials for therapeutic products are normally done in three phases. Phase 1 clinical trials are typically conducted with a small number of patients or healthy subjects to evaluate safety, determine a safe dosage range, identify side effects, and, if possible, gain early evidence of effectiveness. Phase 2 clinical trials are conducted with a larger group of patients to evaluate effectiveness of an investigational product for a defined patient population, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. Phase 3 clinical trials involve large scale, multi-center, comparative trials that are conducted to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the investigational product and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. In some special cases where the efficacy testing of a product may present a special challenge to testing in humans, such as in the case of a vaccine to protect healthy humans from a life-threatening disease that is not a naturally occurring threat, effectiveness testing may be required only in animals.
After completion of clinical trials of a new product, FDA marketing approval must be obtained or equivalent approval in comparable agencies in other countries. For the FDA, if the product is regulated as a biologic, a Biologics License Application, or BLA, is required. The BLA must include results of product development activities, pre-clinical studies, and clinical trials in addition to detailed chemistry, manufacturing and control information.
Applications submitted to the FDA are subject to an unpredictable and potentially prolonged approval process. Despite good-faith communication and collaboration between the applicant and the FDA during the development process, the FDA may ultimately decide, upon final review of the data, that the application does not satisfy its criteria for approval or requires additional product development or further pre-clinical or clinical studies. Even if FDA regulatory clearances are obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions.
Before marketing clearance for a product can be secured, the facility in which the product is manufactured must be inspected by the FDA and must comply with cGMP regulations. In addition, after marketing clearance is secured, the manufacturing facility must be inspected periodically for cGMP compliance by FDA inspectors.
In addition to the FDA requirements, the NIH has established guidelines for research involving human genetic materials, including recombinant DNA molecules. The FDA cooperates in the enforcement of these guidelines, which apply to all recombinant DNA research that is conducted at facilities supported by the NIH, including proposals to conduct clinical research involving gene therapies. The NIH review of clinical trial proposals and safety information is a public process and often involves review and approval by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, of the NIH.
Sponsors of clinical trials are required to register and report results for all controlled clinical investigations, other than Phase 1 investigations, of a product subject to FDA regulation. Trial registration may require public disclosure of confidential commercial development data resulting in the loss of competitive secrets, which could be commercially detrimental.
Medical Device Manufacturing Regulation
In addition, we are subject to regulation as a medical device manufacturer. We must comply with a variety of manufacturing, product development and quality regulations in order to be able to distribute our electroporation devices commercially around the world. In Europe, we must comply with the Medical Device Directives. We have a Quality System certified by its international Notified Body to be in compliance with the international Quality System Standard, ISO13485, and 
26

meeting the Annex II Quality System requirements of the MDD. We completed Annex II Conformity Assessment procedures to allow for the CE Mark of our electroporation devices.
In the United States, we are required to maintain facilities, equipment, processes and procedures that are in compliance with quality systems regulations. Our systems have been constructed to be in compliance with these regulations and our ongoing operations are conducted within these systems. Commercially distributed devices within the United States must be developed under formal design controls and be submitted to the FDA for clearance or approval. All development activity is performed according to formal procedures to ensure compliance with all design control regulations.
We employ modern manufacturing methods and controls to optimize performance and control costs. Internal capabilities and core competencies are strategically determined to optimize our manufacturing efficiency. We utilize contract manufacturers for key operations, such as clean room assembly and sterilization, which are not economically conducted in-house. We outsource significant sub-assemblies, such as populated printed circuit boards, for which capital requirements or manufacturing volumes do not justify vertical integration.
Other Regulations
We also are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations, and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research. The extent of government regulation that might result from any future legislation or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted.
Commercialization and Manufacturing
Because of the broad potential applications of our technologies, we intend to develop and commercialize products both on our own and through our collaborators and licensees. We intend to develop and commercialize products in well-defined specialty markets, such as infectious diseases and cancer. Where appropriate, we intend to rely on strategic marketing and distribution alliances.
We believe our plasmids can be produced in commercial quantities through uniform methods of fermentation and processing that are applicable to all plasmids. We believe we will be able to obtain sufficient supplies of plasmids for all foreseeable clinical investigations.
Relationship with GeneOne 
We acquired an equity interest in GeneOne in 2005. As of December 31, 2017, we owned 7.8% of the outstanding capital stock of GeneOne and GeneOne owned 73,590 shares of our common stock. To our knowledge, none of our current officers, directors, or key employees beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, any securities of GeneOne.
In 2008, we sold our manufacturing operations (including patent rights to certain manufacturing technology) to VGXI, Inc., a wholly-owned United States subsidiary of GeneOne. In connection with this transfer we entered into a Supply Agreement pursuant to which VGXI, Inc., a cGMP contract manufacturer, produces and supplies the DNA plasmids for all of our research and early clinical trials. The price of the plasmids we purchase from VGXI, Inc. is determined by us and GeneOne at the time of order placement or, with respect to product supplied in connection with a grant contract, based on the contracted bid provided by the applicable agency. We agreed to treat GeneOne and its subsidiary as our most favored supplier for DNA plasmids and GeneOne and its subsidiary agreed to treat us as their most favored customer. Before we can manufacture DNA plasmids on our own behalf or engage a third party other than GeneOne or its subsidiary to manufacture DNA plasmids for us, we must first offer such manufacturing work to GeneOne or its subsidiary.
In 2014, we entered into a Collaborative Development Agreement with GeneOne to co-develop an Ebola vaccine through Phase 1 clinical trials. In 2015, we amended the agreement to provide that we would have control over the development program, in return for the payment of certain development fees.
In 2015, we entered into a Collaborative Development Agreement with GeneOne to co-develop a DNA vaccine for MERS through Phase 1 clinical trials. Under the terms of the agreement, GeneOne will be responsible for funding all preclinical and clinical studies through Phase 1.  In return, GeneOne will receive up to 35% milestone-based ownership interest in the MERS immunotherapy upon achievement of the last milestone event of completion of the Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity study.  The collaborative research program will terminate upon the completion of activities under the development plan, unless sooner terminated.
In January 2016, we and GeneOne expanded the collaboration agreement to test and advance our DNA-based vaccine for preventing and treating Zika virus.  GeneOne will be responsible for funding all preclinical and clinical studies through Phase 1.  In return, GeneOne will receive up to a 35% milestone-based ownership interest in the Zika immunotherapy upon achievement of the last milestone event of the completion of the Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity study. 
27

In December 2017, we completed the sale of certain assets related to our compound VGX-1027 to GeneOne for $1.0 million.
Revenue recognized from GeneOne consists of licensing and other fees from the influenza and Zika collaborations. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recognized revenue from GeneOne of $0.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Operating expenses recorded from transactions with GeneOne relate primarily to biologics manufacturing. These operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $2.3 million and $2.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had an accounts receivable balance of $0 and $441,000, respectively, and an accounts payable and accrued liability balance of $107,000 and $379,000, respectively, related to GeneOne and its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, $331,000 and $571,000, respectively, of prepayments made to GeneOne were classified as long-term other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 
Intellectual Property
Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. We file patent applications to protect our technologies, inventions and improvements to our inventions that we consider important to the development of our business. We file for patent registration extensively in the United States and in key foreign markets. Although our patent filings include claims covering various features of our products and product candidates, including composition, methods of manufacture and use, our patents do not provide us with complete protection, or guarantee, against the development of competing products. In addition, some of our know-how and technology are not patentable. We thus also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements, but such agreements may provide limited protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information.
Our intellectual property portfolio covers our proprietary technologies, including electroporation delivery and vaccine related technologies. As of December 31, 2017, our patent portfolio included over 139 issued United States patents and 525 issued foreign counterpart patents.
Key vaccine related technology patents and published patent applications include the following:

• | US Pat. No. 6,733,994, entitled, “Highly expressible genes” including claims directed to IgE signal leaders;


• | US Pat. No. 8,133,723, entitled, “Novel Vaccines Against Multiple Subtypes Of Influenza”;


• | US Pat. No. 8,168,769, entitled, “Improved Vaccines and Methods for Using the Same,” with claims directed to HPV vaccine products;


• | US Pat. No. 8,178,660, entitled, "Vaccines And Immunotherapeutics Using Codon Optimized IL-15 And Methods For Using The Same";


• | US Pat. No. 8,535,687, entitled, "Smallpox DNA Vaccine And The Antigens Therein That Elicit An Immune Response";


• | US Pat. Nos. 8,697,084, and 9,376,471, entitled, "HIV Consensus Envelop Sequences And Methods For Using The Same";


• | US Pat. No. 8,835,620, entitled, “Novel Vaccines Against Multiple Subtypes Of Influenza Virus”;


• | US Pat. No. 8,852,609, entitled, “Consensus Sequences of Chikungunya Viral Proteins, Nucleic Acid Molecules Encoding the Same and Compositions and Methods for Using the Same”;


• | US Pat. Nos. 8,927,692 and 9,399,056, entitled, “Consensus Prostate Antigens, Nucleic Acid Molecule Encoding The Same And Vaccine And Uses Comprising The Same";


• | US Pat. No. 8,961,994, entitled, “DNA Constructs Eliciting Immune Response Against Flavivirus and Effective Adjuvants”;


• | US Pat. No. 9,034,313, entitled, “Nucleic Acid Molecules Encoding Rantes, and Compositions and Methods of Using The Same”;


• | US Pat. Nos. 9,050,287 and 8,389,706, entitled, “Vaccines for Human Papilloma Virus and Methods for Using the Same”;


• | US Pat. Nos. 9,156,891, 9,156,890, 8,921,536, and 8,829,174, entitled, "Improved HCV Vaccines And Methods For Using The Same";


• | US Pat. Nos. 9,192,660 and 8,298,820, entitled, “Influenza Nucleic Acid Molecules and Vaccines Made Therefrom”;

28


• | US Pat. Nos. 9,238,679 and 9,403,879, entitled, “Nucleic acid molecule encoding hepatitis B virus core protein and vaccine comprising the same”;


• | US Pat. No. 9,243,041, entitled, “Nucleic acid molecule encoding novel herpes antigens, vaccine comprising the same, and methods of use thereof”;


• | US Pat. No. 9,272,024 entitled, “Compositions, comprising improved IL-12 genetic constructs and vaccines, immunotherapeutics and methods of using the same”;


• | US Pat. No. 9,290,546 entitled, “hTERT sequences and methods for using the same”;


• | US Pat. No. 9,446,112 entitled, “Clostridium difficile DNA vaccine”; and


• | US Pat. No. 9,446,114 entitled, “Cross-protective arenavirus vaccines and their method of use.”

Key electroporation related patents covering range of field strengths and novel processes include the following:

• | US Pat. No. 6,110,161, entitled, “Method for introducing pharmaceutical drugs and nucleic acids into skeletal muscle”;


• | US Pat. No. 6,261,281, entitled, “Method for genetic immunization and introduction of molecules into skeletal muscle and immune cells”;

•US Pat. No. 6,697,669, entitled, “Skin and muscle-targeted gene therapy by pulsed electrical field”;

• | US Pat. No. 6,752,780, entitled, “Intradermal injection system for injecting DNA-based injectables into humans”;

•US Pat. No. 6,752,781, entitled, “Durable hypodermic jet injector apparatus and method”;
•US Pat. No. 6,939,862, entitled, “Method for transferring nucleic acid into striated muscles”;
•US Pat. No. 6,958,060, entitled, “Method for muscle delivery of drugs, nucleic acids and other compounds”;
•US Pat. No. 7,245,963, entitled, “Electrode assembly for constant-current electroporation and use”;

• | US Pat. No. 7,328,064, entitled, “Electroporation device and injection apparatus,” with claims directed to methods of delivering an agent plus electroporation; 

•US Pat. No. 7,442,182, entitled, “Spring powered needle-free injection system”; 
•US Pat. No. 7,547,293, entitled, “Triggering mechanism for needle-free injector”; 
•US Pat. No. 7,664,545, entitled, “Electrode assembly for constant-current electroporation and use”;
•US Pat. No. 7,717,874, entitled, “Needle-free injection system”; 

• | US Pat. No. 7,922,709, entitled, “Enhanced delivery of naked DNA to skin by non-invasive in vivo electroporation”; 

•US Pat. No. 7,942,845, entitled, “Needle-free injector and process for providing serial injections”;
•US Pat. No. 8,209,006, entitled, “Constant current electroporation device and methods of use”;
•US Pat. No. 8,617,099, entitled, “Injection device plunger auto-disable”; and

• | US Pat. No. 9,452,285, entitled, “Electroporation devices and methods of using same for electroporation of cells in mammals.” 

If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business would thus be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expense. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation through the courts. In addition, our patents, or any other patents that may be issued to us in the future, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in each country where we operate. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and domestic and international mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights in those countries may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or 
29

otherwise gaining access to our technology. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation, whether or not it is ultimately resolved in our favor, would result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel.
There may be rights we are not aware of, including applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third-parties could bring claims against us, and that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or biologic drug candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third-party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also impact our collaborators, which would also impact the success of the collaboration and therefore us.
Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biologic products, including vaccines, and processes in the United States and other important markets outside the United States, such as Europe and Japan. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the United States patent system. We recognize that litigation or administrative proceedings may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to interrupt our operations, redesign our products or processes, or negotiate a license agreement, all of which would adversely affect our revenue. Furthermore, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products.
We cannot guarantee that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection.
Significant Customers and Research and Development
During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we derived 53% and 4% of our revenue from MedImmune, 24% and 75% of our revenue from DARPA, and 14% and 14% of our revenue from Roche, respectively. Since our inception, virtually all of our activities have consisted of research and development efforts related to developing our electroporation technologies and immunotherapies. Research and development expense consists of expenses incurred in performing research and development activities including salaries and benefits, facilities and other overhead expenses, clinical trials, contract services and other outside expenses. Our research and development expense was $98.6 million in 2017 and $88.7 million in 2016.
Geographic Information 
All of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was earned in the United States. All of our long-lived assets are located in the United States.
Corporate History and Headquarters

We have been a leader in advancing the capabilities of DNA-based immunotherapies to treat infectious diseases and cancers going back to the original incorporation of Viral Genomix, Inc. under the laws of Delaware on April 17, 2000. We were renamed VGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on May 31, 2006. On February 21, 2007, VGX Pharmaceuticals acquired Advisys, Inc., a company possessing DNA and electroporation technology, through an asset purchase agreement. On April 14, 2007, VGX Pharmaceuticals entered into an exclusive license agreement with the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania related to therapeutic and prophylactic DNA vaccines developed by Professor David B. Weiner at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. 
Recognizing the value of electroporation delivery technology, devices, and patents in advancing DNA-based immunotherapy products, on June 1, 2009, VGX Pharmaceuticals completed a merger with Inovio Biomedical Corporation, a publicly listed company focused on electroporation delivery technology. 
Inovio Biomedical Corporation started as Biotechnologies & Experimental Research, Inc. and was incorporated on June 29, 1983 in California to create products for the research marketplace. The company changed its corporate name to BTX, Inc. 
30

on December 10, 1991, and to Genetronics, Inc. on February 8, 1994. On April 14, 1994, Genetronics, Inc. became a public company through a share exchange agreement with Consolidated United Safety Technologies, Inc., a company listed on the Vancouver Stock Exchange under the laws of British Columbia, Canada. The company changed its name to Genetronics Biomedical Ltd. on September 29, 1994. Genetronics, Inc. remained as a wholly owned operating subsidiary. On September 2, 1997, the company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. On December 8, 1998, the company listed on the American Stock Exchange (now NYSE MKT) and voluntarily de-listed from the Toronto Stock Exchange on January 17, 2003. On June 15, 2001, Genetronics Biomedical Ltd. completed a change in jurisdiction of incorporation from British Columbia, Canada, to the state of Delaware and became Genetronics Biomedical Corporation. On January 25, 2005, Genetronics Biomedical Corporation acquired Inovio AS, a gene delivery technology company located in Norway. On March 31, 2005, Genetronics Biomedical Corporation was renamed Inovio Biomedical Corporation. 
The merger between VGX Pharmaceuticals and Inovio Biomedical Corporation was effected pursuant to the terms of an Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 5, 2008, as further amended on March 31, 2009. On May 14, 2010, the combined entity changed its corporate name to Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We conduct our business through our United States wholly-owned subsidiaries, VGX Pharmaceuticals, LLC and Genetronics, Inc.
Our corporate headquarters are located at 660 W. Germantown Pike, Suite 110, Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania 19462, and our telephone number is (267) 440-4200. 
Available Information
Our Internet website address is www.inovio.com. In addition to the information contained in this Annual Report, information about us can be found on our website. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Annual Report.
We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You can also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us.
Information regarding our corporate governance, including the charters of our audit committee, our nomination and corporate governance committee and our compensation committee, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Governance Policy and information for contacting our board of directors is available on our website.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics includes our Code of Ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who also serves as our principal accounting officer. Any amendments to or waivers of the Code of Ethics will be promptly posted on our website or in a report on Form 8-K, as required by applicable law.
Employees
As of March 9, 2018, we employed 278 people on a full-time basis and 2 people under consulting and project employment agreements. Of the combined total, 226 were in product research, which includes research and development, quality assurance, clinical, engineering, and manufacturing, and 54 were in general and administrative functions, which includes corporate development, information technology, legal, investor relations, finance, and corporate administration. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.
31

