Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business
 Kohl’s Corporation (the “Company," “Kohl’s,” "we," "our" or "us") was organized in 1988 and is a Wisconsin corporation. As of February 3, 2018, we operated 1,158 Kohl's department stores, a website (www.Kohls.com), 12 FILA outlets, and four Off-Aisle clearance centers. Our Kohl's stores and website sell moderately-priced proprietary and national brand apparel, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products. Our Kohl's stores generally carry a consistent merchandise assortment with some differences attributable to local preferences. Our website includes merchandise that is available in our stores, as well as merchandise that is available only online.  
 Our merchandise mix includes both national brands and proprietary brands that are available only at Kohl's. Our proprietary portfolio includes well-known established private brands such as Apt. 9, Croft & Barrow, Jumping Beans, SO and Sonoma Goods for Life and exclusive brands that are developed and marketed through agreements with nationally-recognized brands such as Food Network, Jennifer Lopez, Marc Anthony, Rock & Republic and Simply Vera Vera Wang. National brands generally have higher selling prices, but lower gross margins, than proprietary brands.
 The following tables summarize our sales penetration by line of business and brand type over the last three years:
 
Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31st each year. Unless otherwise stated, references to years in this report relate to fiscal years rather than to calendar years. The following fiscal periods are presented in this report.
 
 
Fiscal Year | Ended | Number of Weeks | 
------------+------------------+-----------------+---
2017 | February 3, 2018 | | 53
2016 | January 28, 2017 | | 52
2015 | January 30, 2016 | | 52

 For discussion of our financial results, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
 Distribution
 We receive substantially all of our store merchandise at our nine retail distribution centers. A small amount of our merchandise is delivered directly to the stores by vendors or their distributors. The retail distribution centers, which are strategically located throughout the United States, ship merchandise to each store by contract carrier several times a week. Digital sales may be picked up in our stores or are shipped from a Kohl’s fulfillment center, retail distribution center or store; by a third-party fulfillment center; or directly by a third-party vendor.
 See Item 2, “Properties,” for additional information about our distribution centers.
 3

Employees
 During 2017, we employed an average of approximately 137,000 associates, including approximately 33,000 full-time and 104,000 part-time associates. The number of associates varies during the year, peaking during the back-to-school and holiday seasons. None of our associates are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relations with our associates are very good.
Competition
 The retail industry is highly competitive. Management considers style, quality and price to be the most significant competitive factors in the industry. Merchandise mix, brands, service, loyalty programs, credit availability, and customer experience and convenience are also key competitive factors. Our primary competitors are traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses and other forms of retail commerce.  Our specific competitors vary from market to market.
 Merchandise Vendors
 We purchase merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. All business partners must meet certain requirements in order to do business with us.  Our Terms of Engagement include provisions regarding laws and regulations, employment practices, ethical standards, environmental and legal requirements, communication, monitoring/compliance, record keeping, subcontracting and corrective action. Our expectation is that all business partners will comply with these Terms of Engagement and quickly remediate any deficiencies, if noted, in order to maintain our business relationship.
 Approximately 25% of the merchandise we sell is sourced through a third-party purchasing agent. No vendors individually accounted for more than 10% of our net purchases in 2017. We have no significant long-term purchase commitments or arrangements with any of our suppliers, and believe that we are not dependent on any one supplier. We believe we have good working relationships with our suppliers.
 Seasonality
 Our business, like that of most retailers, is subject to seasonal influences. The majority of our sales and income are typically realized during the second half of each fiscal year. The back-to-school season extends from August through September and represents approximately 15% of our annual sales.  Approximately 30% of our annual sales occur during the holiday season in the months of November and December. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the fiscal year.
Trademarks and Service Marks
 KOHL'S® is a registered trademark owned by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying goodwill to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has over 200 additional registered trademarks, most of which are used in connection with our private brand products.
Available Information
 Our corporate website is https://corporate.kohls.com. Through the “Investors” portion of this website, we make available, free of charge, our proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material has been filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
 4

The following have also been posted on our website, under the caption “Investors” and sub-caption "Corporate Governance":
  
• | Committee charters of our Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance & Nominating Committee
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Corporate Governance Guidelines
--+--------------------------------


• | Code of Ethics
--+---------------


• | Corporate Social Responsibility Report
--+---------------------------------------

 Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Paper copies of any of the materials listed above will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to our Investor Relations Department at N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin 53051 or via e-mail to Investor.Relations@Kohls.com.
 