Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Nature of Operations
 
Superior Drilling Products, Inc. (the “Company”, “SDPI”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is an innovative drilling and completion tool technology company providing cost saving solutions that drive production efficiencies for the oil and natural gas drilling and completions industry. Our headquarters and manufacturing operations are located in Vernal, Utah. The Company innovates, designs, engineers, manufactures, sells, and repairs drilling and completion tools. We design and manufacture new drill bit and horizontal drill string enhancement tools and refurbish PDC (polycrystalline diamond compact) drill bits for the oil, natural gas and mining services industry. Our customers are primarily service companies that support companies engaged in domestic and international exploration and production of oil and natural gas.


We were incorporated on December 10, 2013 under the name SD Company, Inc. in order to facilitate (a) the reorganization of the entities that are now our consolidated subsidiaries and (b) the subsequent acquisition of Hard Rock Solutions, LLC (“HR”). We changed our name from SD Company Inc. to Superior Drilling Products, Inc. on May 22, 2014 in conjunction with closing of that reorganization and our initial public offering, which occurred on May 23, 2014 (“Offering” or “IPO”). Our corporate headquarters and manufacturing operations are located in Vernal, Utah. Our common stock trades on the NYSE MKT exchange under the ticker symbol “SDPI”.
 
Our subsidiaries include (a) Superior Drilling Solutions, LLC (previously known as Superior Drilling Products, LLC), a Utah limited liability company (“SDS”), together with its wholly owned subsidiary Superior Design and Fabrication, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“SDF”), (b) Extreme Technologies, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“ET”), (c) Meier Properties Series, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“MPS”), (d) Meier Leasing, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“ML”), and (e) HR.
 
We currently have three basic operations:
 

● | Our PDC drill bit and other tool refurbishing and manufacturing service, 
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Our emerging technologies business that manufactures the Drill-N-Ream tool, our innovative drill string enhancement tool, the Strider technology and other tools 
● | Our new product development business that conducts our research and development, and designs our horizontal drill string enhancement tools, other down-hole drilling technologies, and drilling tool manufacturing technologies. 

Our Company
 
Our strategy for growth is to leverage its expertise in drill tool technology and precision machining in order to broaden our product offerings and solutions for the oil and gas industry. We believe through our patented technologies, as well as technologies under development, that we can offer the industry the solutions it demands to improve drilling efficiencies and reduce production costs.
 
Our co-founder, Troy Meier, developed the first commercially-viable process for refurbishing PDC drill bits after a successful 13-year career with a predecessor of Baker Hughes Inc. He was also co-inventor of the patented Drill-N-Ream® well bore conditioning tool (“Drill-N-Ream tool” or “DnR”). We used the proceeds from our IPO to acquire the remaining rights to the tool. While our initial strategy after the acquisition was to be a rental tool company, we made a major strategic shift in 2016 to focus on our core competencies of innovation in manufacturing technologies, creation of solution for the upstream oil and gas industry, drilling tool fleet maintenance and repair and the development engineering and manufacture of new tools and technologies.
 
For the past 22 years, we have manufactured and refurbished PDC drill bits exclusively for Baker Hughes’s oilfield operations in the Rocky Mountain, California and Alaska regions, as well as other areas as needed to support their internal operations. We have extended our long-standing contract with Baker Hughes until March 31, 2018 in order to ensure there is no disruption of service while we negotiate new terms that broaden our relationship with them.


We have been expanding our offerings and broadening our customer base and the end-users of our technologies by demonstrating our engineering, design and manufacturing expertise of down-hole drilling tools. In addition to the patented Drill-N-Ream tool, our products include the patented Strider™ Drill String Oscillation System technology (“Strider technology”) which is applied to the Open Hole Strider tool (“OHS”) and the CTS (coiled tubing strider), the V-Stream Advanced Conditioning System and the Dedicated Reamer Stinger. We are also developing a suite of other horizontal drill string tools, each of which addresses a different technical challenge presented by today’s horizontal drilling designs. In addition, we work with our customers to develop new products and enhancements to existing products in order to improve efficiency and safety and solve complex drilling tool problems.
 

4
-

 

We manufacture our solutions, as well as custom products, in our state-of-the-art drill tool fabrication facility where we operate a technologically-advanced PDC drill bit refurbishing facility, as well as a state-of-the-art, high-tech drilling and completion tool engineering design and manufacturing operation. We manufacture our drill string enhancement tools, including the patented Drill- N-Ream tool and the patented Strider technology, and conduct our new product research and development from this facility.
 
We employ a senior work force with specialized training and extensive experience related to drill bit refurbishing and drill and completion tool manufacturing. They produce our products and services using a suite of highly technical, purpose-built equipment, much of which we design and manufacture for our proprietary use. Our manufacturing equipment and products use advanced technologies that enable us to increase efficiency, enhance product integrity, improve efficiency and safety, and solve complex drilling tool problems.
 
In May 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with Drilling Tools International (“DTI”), under which DTI had a requirement to purchase our Drill-N-Ream tool for their rental tool business and achieve market share requirements in order to maintain exclusive marketing rights for the Drill-N-Ream. This agreement began the shift of our business model from a rental tool company to a manufacturer that designs, builds and sells tools. DTI, has exclusive rights to market the Drill-N-Ream in the U.S. and Canada, both onshore and offshore. It must achieve defined market share goals with our tool that started in June 2017 and increase through the end of 2020. We receive revenue from DTI for tool sales, tool repairs and a royalty fee based on the tools usage.
 
In 2016, the Company entered into a non-exclusive agreement with Baker Hughes to supply them with the Strider technology with our open Hole Strider tool and related services. Tool shipments under the agreement are expected to begin mid-2018. The agreement has no set expiration date or minimum shipment requirement. It will remain in force until it is canceled by either us or Baker Hughes, as stipulated in the agreement. The Company’s current agreement with Baker Hughes regarding drill bit refurbishment has been extended until March 31, 2018. The Company is currently negotiating new terms for a replacement agreement with the intent to broaden the relationship with Baker Hughes and not have any disruption in operations or production.
 
In December 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with Weatherford U.S., L.P. (“Weatherford”) to launch a joint market development program to introduce our Drill-N-Ream tool in the Middle East. Under the development agreement, Weatherford and SDPI will demonstrate the Drill-N-Ream’s capabilities with large Middle East operators in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman. The program is planned to continue through June 30, 2018. SDPI and Weatherford each employ a local resident Product Champion to execute the pilot test program of 18 Drill-N-Ream tools. Upon the technology being proven in the region, the parties plan to enter into a long-term commercial agreement.



5
-

Our Strategy for Growth


We intend to pursue the following growth strategies as we seek to expand our market share and solidify our position as a competitive drilling tool manufacturer in the drilling industry:
 
Leverage highly advanced tool technologies. We currently have two differentiated advanced drilling tool technologies that address challenges encountered in the oil and gas drilling marketplace.
 
● The Strider technology is a patented drill string oscillation system that minimizes drill string friction thereby improving weight on bit for directional drilling. Its technological advancements, including a two-part design, enable the Strider to be placed closer to the drill bit than other oscillation tools. We have two tools that incorporate the Strider technology: the CTS and the OHS.
 
● The Drill-N-Ream tool has a unique design that provides a cleaner well bore with fewer ledges and a wider drift, while eliminating the need for a dedicated reaming run. As a result, our end users experience fewer drill string tool failures and reduce the number of drilling days per well.
 
Expand our channels to market. We have strategically shifted from creating a rental tool business to leveraging existing distribution channels in the exploration and production industry. As noted earlier, in May 2016, we entered into an agreement with DTI, establishing DTI as the exclusive distributor of our patented Drill-N-Ream tool in the United States and Canada onshore and offshore markets. As a result of this agreement, we believe our technology will penetrate the market more efficiently as DTI already has developed long-term relationships with end users.
 
We are expanding our channels to market and our geographic presence with the market development agreement we entered into with Weatherford in December 2017. We expect to add additional distributors as we expand our tool offering. We also expect to leverage our distributor and customer relationships to identify needs for new tool development and to use these channels to market a broadened product offering as it is developed.
 
We are currently negotiating a new agreement with Baker Hughes to broaden our relationship beyond what we have provided for them the past 22 years. While Baker Hughes continues to use us for its drill bit refurbishment in the Rocky Mountain and other Western regions of the U.S., we have also leveraged our long time relationship to increase our market penetration. In 2016, we added our OHS tool rental agreement to our drill bit refurbishing business with Baker Hughes. Their sales force will now offer the OHS in order to provide a complete offering to their customers. We intend to continue to develop our long-time relationship with Baker Hughes and look for other ways to partner with them.
 
Strengthen and support our employees. Our experienced employees and management team are some of our most valuable resources. Attracting, training, and retaining key personnel, has been and will continue to be critical to our success. To achieve our goals, we intend to remain focused on providing our employees with training, personal and professional growth opportunities, as well as adding performance-based incentives, including opportunities for stock ownership, and other competitive benefits. We are also working with the local university and high school to develop and teach local programs in machining and engineering expertise and technical resources.
 
Seek strategic acquisitions to enhance or expand our product lines. While capital constraints are currently requiring us to focus on organic growth, we may identify new technologies to add to our arsenal of tools for the exploration and production industry. In analyzing new acquisitions, we intend to pursue opportunities that complement our existing product line and/or that are geographically situated within our current market. We believe that strategic acquisitions will enable us to exploit economies of scale in the areas of finance, human resources, marketing, administration, information technology, and legal, while also providing cross-marketing opportunities among our drill tool product offerings.


Our Horizontal Drilling Tools and Technologies
 
Drill-N-Ream Tool. The Drill-N-Ream tool is a dual-section wellbore conditioning tool which is located behind the bottom hole assembly (BHA) to smooth and slightly enlarge the well drift in the curved and horizontal sections of horizontal wells, in both oil and water based mud. The Drill-N-Ream tool is available in multiple sizes and can be custom manufactured to fit any hole size. Concurrently as the well bore is being drilled, the Drill-N-Ream tool conditions the well bore tortuosity brought about from the drill bit geo-steering, and from directional drilling overcorrections and formation interactions which allows the drill string to move through the conditioned well bore left by the drill bit with less friction and stress. As a result, the Drill-N-Ream tool extends the horizontal distance of the well bore by:
 
(a) smoothing out ledges and doglegs left by the bit, which allows the drill string to move through a conditioned well bore with less friction and stress,
 
(b) reducing tool joint damages and trip time (i.e. the time required to remove and reinsert the drill string),
 
(c) enhancing the power available to drive the drill bit assembly,
 
(d) extending the horizontal distance that can be drilled during a run and making tripping (removal of the drill string), and
 
(e) the running of casing in the completed well much easier.


This also reduces the number of “trips” required by the operator, or the number of times the drill string has to be removed and reinserted. Each time a drilling operator has to trip the drill string and replace a bit or other drill string component, it costs the operator substantial time and money, so we believe anything that allows each run to extend further without additional tripping is of great value to our customers. Traditional methods for conditioning the well bore entails removing the drill string and running a dedicated reamer through the well bore, typically in two separate runs. The Drill-N-Ream tool eliminates the need for dedicated reamer runs, and therefore reduces the cost of drilling a horizontal well.
 

6
-

 

We believe that the Drill-N-Ream’s rapid adoption and continued use by operators validates its effectiveness and industry acceptance. In fact, leading operators have begun to standardize their drilling assembly with a Drill-N-Ream tool. In addition, we understand that a number of customers have rented the Drill-N-Ream tool after first trying competitive products. We expect the above factors to support increasing interest in, and revenue from, the Drill-N-Ream tool over the next several years as more well operators’ reports of its effectiveness are transmitted through word-of-mouth by an increasing user base to other well operators globally.
 
Strider Technology. The Strider technology utilizes its unique patented design to reduce drill string friction on horizontal wells, resulting in improved rates of penetration and cost savings. Its revolutionary engineering provides a cost-effective alternative to conventional downhole vibration tools. The Strider technology is designed to help dissipate the inertial drag of a horizontal drill string by generating rhythmic pulses that break the frictional connection between the drill strings and well bore greatly enhancing drilling rates.
 
The Strider technology is composed of two main parts, a hydraulic channeling chamber (HCC) and a rhythmic pulsation chamber (RPC). The RPC contains a precisely engineered, high speed pulse-valve that systematically restricts flow area. During flow restriction, or “closure”, the ideal amount of fluid is allowed to continue down hole. This perfectly controlled hydraulic flow produces an optimal pulse frequency, which is preferred for bottom hole assembly equipment. The low frequency also allows for placement of the Strider technology closer to the bit than typical oscillation tools.
 
We believe that our Strider technology is at the forefront of drill string tool technological development for horizontal drilling. We also believe our Strider technology offers significant advantages over our competitors drill string stimulation tools and will be rapidly accepted in the drilling market and completion markets.
 
We have two tools that we have developed with our Strider technology: the CTS and OHS.
 
The CTS is used in the completions industry to assist the coiled tube used to complete previously drilled well bores to get to bottom depth. It is used by oil field services companies that specialize in completions, as well as by the operators. We expect to commercialize the redesigned CTS in mid-2018.
 
The OHS is used as a component of the bottom hole assembly for drilling to create improved drilling efficiencies by reducing friction and adding additional thrust behind the drill bit. The tool is expected to be commercialized and ready for shipment in mid-2018.


V-Stream advanced conditioning system (“V-Stream”). The V-Stream tool is an integral spiral blade stabilizer and is engineered to combine stabilization with reaming. A cavity or plenum in the middle of the blades facilities enhanced fluid flow for cuttings transport and reduces torque when compared with typical stabilizers with similar overall blade length. Non-active cutters at gauge enable the V-Stream to remove formation and condition the hole while controlling deviation. With these unique features, the V-Stream will stabilize the BHA and condition the hole simultaneously to optimize the drilling operations.
 
Dedicated Reamer Stinger (“DR Stinger”). DR Stinger is designed to optimize dedicated reamer operations. DR Stinger utilized our fully-patented Drill-N-Ream tool with its dual stage eccentric reamers which conditions well bores by increasing well bore drift. The two reamer stages spaced approximately five feet apart act in unison to force each other into the formation while efficiently reducing ledges, doglegs, and well bore tortuosity. With DR Stinger, a tapered stinger is placed just below the Drill-N-Ream tool at the end of the drill string. The DR Stinger eliminates any bit costs during the reamer operation as it is run without a bit, offering a much better indication of hole conditions. Floats are included in the DR Stinger, as well as an anti-plug port system with both features eliminating any plugging of the drill string. With no bit on the DR Stringer, the drill string will find and keep well bore center preventing unplanned side tracks.
 
Our Drill Bit Refurbishment Business
 
Our original arrangement with Baker Hughes was an agreement to perform our drill bit refurbishment work exclusively for their Rocky Mountain, California and Alaskan regions. We believe that we continue to lead the industry in PDC drill bit repair technology – continually improving repair techniques to improve drill bit performance and efficiency. We are negotiating a new agreement with Baker Hughes to both deepen and broaden our relationship with them while providing continuity of service.

7
-

Oil and Gas Drilling Industry
 
Overview
 
Drilling and completion of oil and gas wells are upstream operations in the oil and gas industry served by the oilfield services group within the energy industry. The drilling industry is often segmented into the North American market and the International market. These markets share common exposure to the same macro environment, but also exhibit unique factors that drive the dynamics of each market.


Oilfield services companies drill the wells for hydrocarbon exploration and production (“E&P”) companies. Demand for drilling services is a function of the willingness of E&P companies to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons. This is highly dependent upon the global demand for oil and gas, the price of the commodities and the cost of drilling services. When oil or natural gas prices increase, E&P companies generally increase their capital expenditures, resulting in greater revenue and profits for both drillers and equipment manufacturers. Likewise, significant decreases in the prices of those commodities may lead E&P companies to reduce their capital expenditures, which decreases the demand for drilling equipment.


Trends in the Industry
 
Recent Rig Count Improvement; Industry Volatility. Our business is highly dependent upon the vibrancy of the oil and gas drilling operations in the U.S. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Soon after the completion of our IPO in late May 2014 and through early 2016, oil prices dramatically declined in the United States and as a result, the number of operating drill rigs has been measurably reduced. The NYMEX-WTI oil price was as low as $26.19 in February 2016 compared with its current price of $60.51 in February 2018. The NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas price was as low as $1.49 per MMBtu in March 2016 and in February 2018 rose to $2.63. In concert with the decline in commodity prices, the Baker Hughes weekly rotary rig count decreased over 70% from a high of 1,931 on September 13, 2014 to a historic low of 404 as of May 27, 2016.
 
The downturn in 2015 and 2016, severely impacted both pricing and volume for drill bit refurbishment. Our contracted areas with Baker Hughes include the higher cost production Bakken shale formation in North Dakota, which had a more dramatic decline in rig count than the overall U.S rig count decline.
 
The recovery in the industry began during the second half of calendar year 2016 and into 2017, as the U.S. rig count more than doubled from mid-2016 to mid-2017. The rate of growth in rig count stabilized in July 2017 and is still increasing but at a slower rate. Oil and gas production has increased to record levels and grew at a faster rate than the increased rig count because of better rig technology and higher rates of productivity per rig. With the increase in market activity, we have seen an increase in demand for our product and services, although we have not seen an increase in pricing.
 
Advancing Production Technologies. The oil and gas industry is increasingly using directional (e.g., horizontal) drilling in their exploration and production activities because of significantly improved recovery rates that can be achieved with these methods. With the rise of this type of drilling, traditional drill string tools used for vertical drilling do not necessarily provide the best performance or are not well suited for directional drilling. In addition, lower oil and natural gas prices combined with more technically challenging horizontal drilling has driven the demand for new technologies. We believe the value of our Drill-N-Ream tool and Strider technology have proven to provide significant operational efficiencies and costs savings for horizontal drilling activity and, combined with our low market penetration, provide us sales opportunities in soft as well as robust markets.
 
GE Oil & Gas merger with Baker Hughes. In October 2016, GE Oil Gas and Baker Hughes announced an agreement to combine their businesses. Currently Baker Hughes is our sole customer for our bit refurbishment business and we expect this merger will impact our collection of accounts receivable from 60 contractual days to 120 contractual days. Despite this, we intend to continue developing our long-time relationship with Baker Hughes including our agreement with Baker Hughes to supply the Strider technology with our OHS tool and related services. As well as the negotiations of an agreement renewal with Baker Hughes that will broaden our relationship beyond the current agreement which was extended to March 31, 2018.



8
-

New Product Development and Intellectual Property
 
Our sales and earnings are influenced by our ability to successfully provide the high-level service that our customers demand, which in turn relies on our ability to develop new processes, technology, and products. We have also historically dedicated additional resources toward the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the effectiveness, safety, and efficiency of the products and services we provide. We expect that with our extensive knowledge and experience in the oilfield industry, we can identify additional challenges with directional drilling, and then design and develop tools that will help our customers with their drilling challenges. Further development of additional drill string components will become increasingly important to our business as we continue to grow through both organic expansion and strategic acquisitions.
 
During 2016, research and development costs were approximately $1.2 million. In 2017, our research and development costs decreased slightly to $0.7 million, which represented 5% of our 2017 revenue as we continued to maintain our commitment to new product development during the downturn in our industry.
 
Although we highly value our proprietary products and technology, we also depend on our technological capabilities, customer service oriented culture, and application of our know-how to distinguish ourselves from our competitors. We also consider the services we provide to our customers, our customer relationships, and the technical knowledge and skill of our personnel, to be more important than our registered intellectual property in our ability to compete. While we stress the importance of our research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new and updated products are such that we cannot assure investors that we will realize any particular amount of future revenue from the services and related products resulting from our research and development programs.
 
Suppliers and Raw Materials
 
We acquire supplies, component parts, products and raw materials from suppliers, including steel suppliers, foundries, forge shops and original equipment manufacturers. The prices we pay for our raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, industrial diamond, steel and other commodity prices, tariffs and duties on imported materials and foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our component parts, products or specific raw materials are only available from a limited number of suppliers.
 
Our ability to obtain suitable quality raw materials and components, such as PDC’s, steel and flux, solder and heating elements, is critical to our ability to remanufacture Baker Hughes drill bits, and to manufacture the Drill-N-Ream tool and Strider technology tools and other future drill line products. In order to purchase raw materials and components in timely and cost effective manner, we have developed both domestic and international sourcing connections and arrangements. We maintain quality assurance and testing programs to analyze and test these raw materials and components in order to assure their compliance with our rigorous specifications and standards. We generally try to purchase our raw materials from multiple suppliers so we are not dependent on any one supplier, but this is not always possible.
 
Because Baker Hughes pays the cost of direct materials and supplies used in our drill bit refurbishing process, cost increases are not as critical as short-term financial components for that line of business. However, the price and availability of commodities and components, in particular steel, can have an impact on our operations. We have no assurance that we will be able to continue to purchase these raw materials on a timely basis or at historical prices.
 

9
-

Proprietary Rights
 
We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Mr. Meier currently has U.S. patent applications pending, and related international patent applications pending as co-inventor, and individually with respect to the Strider technology and other pending horizontal drilling tools. There is no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that the existing patents or that any future patents issued to us will provide any competitive advantages for their products or technology, or that, if challenged, the patents issued to us will be held valid and enforceable. Despite our precautions, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Existing intellectual property laws afford only limited protection and policing violations of such laws is difficult. The laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be used by our customers do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. There is no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary information, or design around our patents.
 
We may be required to enter into costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend infringement claims by others. Such infringement claims could require us to license the intellectual property rights of third parties. There is no assurance that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all.
 
Marketing and Sales
 
We do not engage in any marketing or sales efforts for our PDC drill bit refurbishing in the oil and gas industry because we are under an exclusive contract with Baker Hughes for those services.
 
In 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with DTI, under which DTI has a requirement to purchase our Drill-N-Ream tool for their rental tool business and achieve market share requirements in order to maintain exclusive marketing rights for the Drill-N-Ream tool. This agreement changed our business model from a rental tool company to a manufacturer that designs, builds and sells tools. DTI, has exclusive rights to market the Drill-N-Ream tool in the U.S., both onshore and offshore, and in Canada. It must achieve defined market share goals with our tool which began in June 2017 and increases through to the end of 2020. We are in the process of evaluating DTI’s market share performance as of December 31, 2017, as well as negotiating an amendment to the agreement with DTI. We receive revenue from DTI for tool sales, tool repairs and a royalty fee based on the tools usage.
 
Our OHS agreement with Baker Hughes enables us to supply our drill string oscillation tool which reduces drill string friction on horizontal wells, resulting in improved rates of penetration and cost savings. The agreement has no set expiration date or minimum shipment requirement. It will remain in force until either SDP or Baker Hughes cancel it. Subject to certain limitations, the agreement is terminable by Baker Hughes on 30 days prior written notice. The tool is expected to be commercialized and ready for shipment in mid-2018.
 
In December 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with Weatherford to launch a joint market development program to introduce our Drill-N-Ream tool in the Middle East. Under the development agreement, Weatherford and SDPI will demonstrate the Drill-N-Ream’s capabilities with large Middle East operators in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman. The program is planned to continue through June 30, 2018. SDPI and Weatherford each employ a local resident Product Champion to execute the pilot test program which originally was for 16 Drill-N-Ream tools and has been expanded since then to 18 DnRs. Upon the technology being proven in the region, the parties plan to enter into a long-term commercial agreement.



10
--

Competitive Strengths
 
We believe that we differentiate ourselves from our competitors because of the technological advantages of our proprietary tools, the quality and reliability of our products, our responsive service, and our manufacturing flexibility to rapidly respond with products that meet the most demanding needs of our customers.
 
Cutting-edge manufacturing capability and proprietary technologies. We have created and designed a cutting-edge machining facility with custom features. We recruited and hired a high level, cross-industry machining team to design and manufacture our products using a suite of highly technical, computer controlled, purpose-built equipment, much of which we design and manufacture for our proprietary use. Most of our manufacturing equipment and products now use advanced technologies that enable us to increase efficiency, enhance the integrity of precision drill bit and drill string tools that we manufacture and improve safety.
 
Industry-recognized expertise and innovation. We believe that we have developed a strong reputation for producing quality products and services based upon our industry-recognized depth of experience, ability to attract and retain quality employees, and innovative processes and applications. We believe that several of the drill bit refurbishing processes and technologies that we developed have raised industry standards.
 
Experienced management team with proven track record. Our executive officers and senior operational managers have extensive experience both with us and in the oilfield service industry generally. Our chief executive officer and co-founder, Troy Meier, has a 33-year relationship with Baker Hughes, providing innovative ideas to support Baker Hughes in maintaining their leadership role in the drill bit industry. Meier family entities continue to be a significant shareholder of our outstanding stock which we believe aligns their interests with the interests of our public investors.
 
Competition
 
Drill Bit Refurbishing. The primary competitors for our drill bit refurbishing services are the in-house units at Hughes Christensen, the division of Baker Hughes responsible for drill bits. Other drill bit manufacturers also have in-house refurbishing units, but they are not our competitors because of our exclusive contract with Baker Hughes.
 
Drilling Enhancement Tools. The primary competitors for our Drill-N-Ream tool are several single-section reaming tool manufacturers, including Baker Oil Tools (a division of Baker Hughes), NOV, and Schlumberger. We believe that the Drill-N-Ream tool is the only patented dual-section or dual cutting structure drill string reamer on the market today. We believe that distinction will allow us to continue building on the Drill-N-Ream tool’s first-mover advantage.
 
We believe that our Strider technology is at the forefront of drill string tool technological development for horizontal drilling. There are existing tools that would compete with the Open Hole drill string stimulation tool, such as the Agitator tool marketed by NOV. However, we believe our technology in the drill string stimulation tool offers significant advantages over the Agitator and we believe our Strider technology will be rapidly accepted in the drilling market.
 

11
--

Customers
 
Distributor/Agent Relationships and Customer Diversification. In 2016, we entered into an agreement with Baker Hughes to be a market channel partner for new customers of our Strider technology, specifically the Open Hole Strider. We engaged with DTI in May 2016 to be the exclusive distributor of the Drill-N-Ream in the United States and Canada onshore and offshore markets. We are also working on additional prospective channel partners, including Weatherford for the Middle East market and for the CTS. While our direct customers are limited and our concentration of revenue is high, the users of our patented technologies continues to increase and represent leading oil and gas producers in North America. Our manufacturing technologies operations also provide us diversification opportunities as we can custom create manufacturing designs and build prototypes for our customers’ new technologies under development.


Drill Bit Refurbishing. Our sole customer for our drill bit refurbishing services is Hughes Christensen, the division of Baker Hughes responsible for drill bits, under our exclusive long-term contract with them. Our current agreement with Baker Hughes regarding drill bit refurbishment has been extended until March 31, 2018. We are currently negotiating an agreement renewal with Baker Hughes that is expected to replace the existing agreement. We work directly with their field engineers, manufacturing and marketing representatives to develop new products and enhancements, improve efficiency and safety, and solve complex drilling tool problems.
 
Drilling Enhancement Tools. E&P operators, other oil field services companies and distributors are demanding key technologies, such as advanced directional drilling and more complex completion systems in order to reduce costs resource requirements and tie to production. We believe that there will be significant opportunities to bring new products and equipment to market, such as our Drill-N-Ream tool and Strider technology, which have been designed and engineered with these new challenges in mind.


Seasonality
 
A substantial portion of our business is not significantly impacted by changing seasons. A small portion of the revenue we generate from selected operations may benefit from higher first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. In the past, some of our revenue in Alaska has declined during the second quarter due to warming weather conditions that resulted in thawing, softer ground, difficulty accessing drill sites and road bans that curtailed drilling activity.
Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation
 
Our operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to human health and environmental protection, and we have put a strong focus on these issues.
 
We designed and built our Vernal facility as a fully-contained business park, except for the city sewer connection. Underlying our entire facility, including parking lots and runoff storage areas, is a complete capture and containment field that collects all building drainage and ground run off in isolated tanks. Captured drainage and runoff, as well as all hazardous waste generated in our manufacturing processes is regularly removed from our facility by a certified hazardous waste disposal company. However, the trend in environmental regulation has been to impose increasingly stringent restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment, and thus, any changes in environmental laws and regulations or in enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Moreover, accidental releases or spills of regulated substances may occur in the course of our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such releases or spills, including any third-party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations or to obtain or comply with permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial or corrective action requirements, and the imposition of orders or injunctions to prohibit or restrict certain activities or force future compliance.
 

12
--

 

The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are subject and for which compliance could have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position.
 
Hazardous Substances and Waste. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. We are required to manage the transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes in compliance with RCRA.
 
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for manufacturing and other operations for many years. We also contract with waste removal services and landfills. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment.
 
Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water Act”) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. A responsible party includes the owner or operator of a facility from which a discharge occurs. The Clean Water Act and analogous state laws provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized discharges and, together with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, impose rigorous requirements for spill prevention and response planning, as well as substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation, and damages in connection with any unauthorized discharges.
 
Employee Health and Safety. We are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including OSHA and comparable state statutes, establishing requirements to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and the public. Substantial fines and penalties can be imposed and orders or injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain operations may be issued in connection with any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety.
 
Insurance and Risk Management
 
We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary and reasonable for companies of our size and with similar operations. In accordance with industry practice, however, we do not maintain insurance coverage against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. Therefore, there is a risk our insurance program may not be sufficient to cover any particular loss or all losses.
 
Currently, our insurance program includes, among other things, general liability, umbrella liability, sudden and accidental pollution, personal property, vehicle, workers’ compensation, directors and officers and employer’s liability coverage. Our insurance includes various limits and deductibles or retentions, which must be met prior to or in conjunction with recovery.
 

13
--

Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had 54 full-time employees compared with 43 full-time employees at the same time in December 2016. We generally have been able to locate and engage highly qualified employees as needed. None of our employees are covered by an ongoing collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our employee relations to be good.
