Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1 BUSINESS
Weyco Group, Inc. is a Wisconsin corporation incorporated in the year 1906 as Weyenberg Shoe Manufacturing Company. Effective April 25, 1990, the name of the corporation was changed to Weyco Group, Inc. 
 Weyco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) engage in one line of business: the design and distribution of quality and innovative footwear. The Company designs and markets footwear principally for men, but also for women and children, under a portfolio of well-recognized brand names including: Florsheim, Nunn Bush, Stacy Adams, BOGS, Rafters and Umi. Trademarks maintained by the Company on its brands are important to the business. The Company’s products consist primarily of mid-priced leather dress shoes and casual footwear composed of man-made materials or leather. In addition, the Company added outdoor boots, shoes and sandals in 2011 with the acquisition of the BOGS and Rafters brands. The Company’s footwear is available in a broad range of sizes and widths, primarily purchased to meet the needs and desires of the general American population. 
 The Company purchases finished shoes from outside suppliers, primarily located in China and India. Almost all of these foreign-sourced purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company continues to experience upward cost pressures from its suppliers related to a variety of factors, including higher labor, materials and freight costs. 
 The Company’s business is separated into two reportable segments — the North American wholesale segment (“wholesale”) and the North American retail segment (“retail”). The Company also has other wholesale and retail businesses overseas which include its businesses in Australia, South Africa and Asia Pacific (collectively, “Florsheim Australia”) and its wholesale and retail businesses in Europe (“Florsheim Europe”). 
 Sales of the Company’s wholesale segment, which include both wholesale sales and worldwide licensing revenues, constituted 77% of total net sales in each of the years 2017 and 2016, and 78% of total net sales in 2015. At wholesale, shoes are marketed throughout the United States and Canada in more than 10,000 shoe, clothing and department stores. In 2017, 2016, and 2015 no individual customer represented more than 10% of the Company’s total sales. The Company employs traveling salespeople and independent sales representatives who sell the Company’s products to retail outlets. Shoes are shipped to these retailers primarily from the Company’s distribution center in Glendale, Wisconsin. In the men’s footwear business, there is generally no identifiable seasonality, although new styles are historically developed and shown twice each year, in spring and fall. With the BOGS brand, which mainly sells winter and outdoor boots, there is seasonality in its business due to the nature of the product; the majority of BOGS sales occur in the third and fourth quarters. Consistent with industry practices, the Company carries significant amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements and periodically provides extended payment terms to customers. The Company also has licensing agreements with third parties who sell its branded shoes outside of the United States, as well as licensing agreements with specialty shoe, apparel and accessory manufacturers in the United States. 
 Sales of the Company’s retail segment constituted 7% of total net sales in each of the years 2017, 2016, and 2015. As of December 31, 2017, the retail segment consisted of 10 brick and mortar stores and internet businesses in the United States. Sales in retail stores are made directly to the consumer by Company employees. 
 Sales of the Company’s other businesses represented 16% of total net sales in each of the years 2017 and 2016, and 15% of total sales in 2015. These sales relate to the Company’s wholesale and retail operations in Australia, South Africa, Asia Pacific and Europe. 

2



 TABLE OF CONTENTS
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company had a backlog of $35 million in orders compared with $38 million as of December 31, 2016. This does not include unconfirmed blanket orders from customers, which account for the majority of the Company’s orders, particularly from its larger accounts. All orders are expected to be filled within one year. 
 As of December 31, 2017, the Company employed 626 persons worldwide, of whom 26 were members of collective bargaining units. Future wage and benefit increases under the collective bargaining contracts are not expected to have a significant impact on the future operations or financial position of the Company. 
 Price, quality, service and brand recognition are all important competitive factors in the shoe industry. The Company has a design department that continually reviews and updates product designs. Compliance with environmental regulations historically has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows, although there can be no assurances. 
 The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports upon written or telephone request. Investors can also access these reports through the Company’s website, www.weycogroup.com, as soon as reasonably practical after the Company files or furnishes those reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference and are not a part of this filing. Also available on the Company’s website are various documents relating to the corporate governance of the Company, including its Code of Ethics.

3



 TABLE OF CONTENTS
