Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
GENERAL
 
American Shared Hospital Services (“ASHS” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company”) provides Gamma Knife stereotactic radiosurgery equipment and radiation therapy and related equipment to seventeen (17) medical centers in fifteen (15) states in the United States and one Gamma Knife unit at a stand-alone facility in Lima, Peru as of March 1, 2018. The Company provides Gamma Knife services through its 81% indirect interest in GK Financing, LLC, a California limited liability company (“GKF”). The remaining 19% of GKF is owned by GKV Investments, Inc., a wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary of Elekta AG, a Swedish company (“Elekta”). Elekta is the manufacturer of the Leksell Gamma Knifeâ (the “Gamma Knife”). GKF is a non-exclusive provider of alternative financing services for Leksell Gamma Knife units.
 
The Company wholly-owns the subsidiaries American Shared Radiosurgery Services (“ASRS”), OR21, Inc. and MedLeader.com, Inc. (“MedLeader”). ASRS is the majority-owner of GKF.
 
GKF has established the wholly-owned subsidiaries, Instituto de Gamma Knife del Pacifico S.A.C. (“GKPeru”) and GK Financing U.K., Limited (“GKUK”) for the purpose of providing similar Gamma Knife services in Peru and England. GKUK is inactive.
 
GKF also owns a 51% interest in Albuquerque GK Equipment, LLC (“AGKE”) and Jacksonville GK Equipment, LLC (“JGKE”). The remaining 49% in each of these two companies is owned by radiation oncologists.
 
The Company continues to develop its design and business model for “The Operating Room for the 21st Century” SM through its 50% owned OR21, LLC (“OR21”). The remaining 50% of OR21 is owned by an architectural design company. OR21 is not expected to generate significant revenue within the next two years.
 
The Company is also the sole owner of PBRT Orlando, LLC (“Orlando”) and the majority owner of Long Beach Equipment, LLC (“LBE”) which were formed to provide proton beam radiation therapy services in Orlando, Florida and Long Beach, California. A 40% minority ownership in LBE is owned by radiation oncologists.
 
In April 2006, the Company invested $2,000,000 for a minority equity interest in Mevion Medical Systems, Inc. (formerly Still River Systems, Inc.) (“Mevion”), a Littleton, Massachusetts company which, in collaboration with scientists from MIT’s Plasma Science and Fusion Center, was developing a medical device for the treatment of cancer patients using proton beam radiation therapy (“PBRT”). In September 2007, December 2011, and June 2012, the Company invested approximately $617,000, $70,000, and $31,000, respectively, for additional equity interests in Mevion. The Company has purchased and installed its first MEVION S250 PBRT system (“MEVION S250”) at Orlando Health - UF Health Cancer Center (“Orlando Health”) and has deposits of $2,000,000 towards the purchase of two more MEVION S250 systems from Mevion. The Company’s first MEVION S250 began treating patients at Orlando Health in April 2016. As of December 31, 2015, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $2,140,000 on its common stock investment in Mevion and as of December 31, 2017, the Company wrote down its remaining $579,000 investment in Mevion. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information.
 
The Company was incorporated in the State of California in 1983 and its predecessor, Ernest A. Bates, M.D., Ltd. (d/b/a American Shared Hospital Services), a California limited partnership, was formed in June 1980.
 

4
-

OPERATIONS
 
Gamma Knife Operations
 
Gamma Knife stereotactic radiosurgery, a non-invasive procedure, is an alternative to conventional brain surgery and/or radiation therapy can be an adjunct to conventional brain surgery, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. Compared to conventional surgery, Gamma Knife radiosurgery usually is an out-patient procedure with lower risk of complications and can be provided at a lower cost. Typically, Gamma Knife patients resume their pre-surgical activities one or two days after treatment. The Gamma Knife treats patients with 201 single doses of gamma rays that are focused with great precision on small and medium sized, well circumscribed and critically located structures in the brain. The Cobalt-60 sources coverage at the target area and deliver a dose that is high enough to destroy the diseased tissue without damaging the surrounding healthy tissue. During 2006, Elekta introduced a new Gamma Knife model, the Perfexion™ unit (“Perfexion”), which treats patients with 192 single doses of gamma rays. In 2015, Elekta introduced an upgrade to the Perfexion called Icon. Fourteen (14) of the Company’s seventeen (17) Gamma Knife units are Perfexion units.
 
The Gamma Knife treats selected malignant and benign brain tumors, arteriovenous malformations, and functional disorders including trigeminal neuralgia (facial pain). Research is being conducted to determine whether the Gamma Knife can be effective in the treatment of epilepsy, tremors, and other functional disorders.
 
As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 118 Gamma Knife sites in the United States and more than 330 units in operation worldwide. Based on the most recent available data, an estimated percentage breakdown of Gamma Knife procedures performed in the U.S. by indications treated is as follows: malignant (61%) and benign (23%) brain tumors, vascular disorders (4%), and functional disorders (12%).
 
The Company, as of March 1, 2018, had sixteen (16) operating Gamma Knife units located in the United States and one in Lima, Peru. The Company’s first Gamma Knife commenced operation in September 1991. The Company’s Gamma Knife units performed 1,631 procedures in 2017 for a cumulative total of approximately 39,000 procedures from commencement through December 31, 2017.
 
Revenue from Gamma Knife services for the Company during each of the last five (5) years ended December 31, and the percentage of total revenue of the Company represented by the Gamma Knife for each of the last five years, are set forth below:
 

Year Ended December 31, | | Total Gamma Knife Revenue (in thousands) | | | Gamma Knife % of Total Revenue
------------------------+------+------------------------------------------+---+--------+-------------------------------
 | 2017 | | $ | 14,848 | | 75.9 | %
 | 2016 | | $ | 16,076 | | 86.0 | %
 | 2015 | | $ | 16,077 | | 97.2 | %
 | 2014 | | $ | 14,521 | | 94.2 | %
 | 2013 | | $ | 16,127 | | 91.7 | %

 
The Company conducts its Gamma Knife business through its 81% indirect interest in GKF. The remaining 19% interest is indirectly owned by Elekta. GKF, formed in October 1995, is managed by its policy committee. The policy committee is composed of one representative from the Company, Ernest A. Bates, M.D., ASHS’s Chairman and CEO, and one representative from Elekta. The policy committee sets the operating policy for GKF. The policy committee may act only with the unanimous approval of both of its members. The policy committee selects a manager to handle GKF’s daily operations. Craig K. Tagawa, Chief Executive Officer of GKF and Chief Operating and Financial Officer of ASHS, serves as GKF’s manager.
 
GKF’s profits and/or losses and any cash distributions are allocated based on membership interests. GKF’s operating agreement requires that it have a cash reserve of at least $50,000 before cash distributions are made to its members. From inception to December 31, 2017, GKF has distributed $47,385,000 to the Company and $11,115,000 to the non-controlling member.
 

5
-

Image Guided Radiation Therapy Operations (“IGRT”)
 
The Company’s radiation therapy business currently consists of one IGRT system that began operation in September 2007 at an existing Gamma Knife customer site. Revenue generated under IGRT services accounted for approximately 3% of the Company’s total revenue in 2017.
 
IGRT technology integrates imaging and detection components into a state-of-the-art linear accelerator, allowing clinicians to plan treatment, verify positioning, and deliver treatment with a single device, providing faster, more effective radiation therapy with less damage to healthy tissue. IGRT captures cone beam imaging, fluoroscopic and/or x-ray images on a daily basis, creating three-dimensional images that pinpoint the exact size, location and coordinates of tumors. Once tumors are pinpointed, the system delivers ultra-precise doses of radiation which ultimately leads to improved patient outcomes.
 
Based on the most recently available information, there are approximately 3,900 linear accelerator-based radiation therapy units installed in the United States, and it is estimated that a majority of these units provide Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy (“IMRT”), IGRT or a combination of this advanced radiation therapy capability. Radiation therapy services are provided through approximately 2,300 hospital based and free-standing oncology centers.
 
Additional information on our operations can be found in Item 6– “Selected Financial Data”, Item 7– “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements.
 
Proton Beam Radiation Therapy Operations
 
PBRT is an alternative to traditional external beam, photon-based radiation delivered by linear accelerators. PBRT, first clinically introduced in the 1950s, has physics advantages compared to photon-based systems which allow PBRT to deliver higher radiation doses to the tumor with less radiation to healthy tissue. PBRT currently treats prostate, brain, spine, head and neck, lung, breast, gastrointestinal tract and pediatric tumors. In excess of 160,000 patients have been treated with protons worldwide.
 
Introduction of PBRT in the United States, until recently, has been limited due to the high capital costs of these projects. The Company believes that the current development of one and two treatment room PBRT systems at lower capital costs and the level of reimbursement for PBRT from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) will help make this technology available to a larger segment of the market.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
The Company’s current business is the outsourcing of stereotactic radiosurgery services and radiation therapy services. The Company typically provides the equipment, as well as planning, installation, reimbursement and marketing support services. The majority of the Company’s customers pay the Company on a fee per use basis. The market for these services primarily consists of large and medium sized medical centers. The business is capital intensive; the total cost of a Gamma Knife or IGRT facility usually ranges from $3.0 million to $5.5 million, including equipment, site construction and installation; the total cost of a single room PBRT system usually ranges from $25.0M to $35.0M, inclusive of equipment, site construction and installation. The Company pays for the equipment and the medical center generally pays for site and installation costs. The following is a listing of the Company’s sites as of March 1, 2018:

6
-


Customers (Gamma Knife except as noted) | Original Term of Contract | Year Contract Began | Basis of Payment
-----------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+---------------------+-----------------
Southwest Texas Methodist Hospital | 10 years | 1998 | Fee per use 
San Antonio, Texas | | | 
Kettering Medical Center | 10 years | 1999 | Revenue sharing 
Kettering, Ohio | | | 
Tufts Medical Center | 10 years | 1999 | Fee per use 
Boston, Massachusetts | | | 
University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences | 15 years | 1999 | Revenue sharing 
Little Rock, Arkansas | | | 
JFK Medical Center | 10 years | 2000 | Fee per use 
Edison, New Jersey | | | 
Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center | 10 years | 2001 | Fee per use 
Las Vegas, Nevada | | | 
Central Mississippi Medical Center | 10 years | 2001 | Fee per use 
Jackson, Mississippi | | | 
OSF Saint Francis Medical Center | 10 years | 2001 | Fee per use 
Peoria, Illinois | | | 
Albuquerque Regional Medical Center | 10 years | 2003 | Fee per use 
Albuquerque, New Mexico | | | 
Northern Westchester Hospital | 10 years | 2005 | Fee per use 
Mt. Kisco, New York | | | 
Tufts Medical Center (IGRT) | 10 years | 2007 | Revenue Sharing 
Boston, Massachusetts | | | 
USC University Hospital | 10 years | 2008 | Fee per use 
Los Angeles, California | | | 
Ft. Sanders Regional Medical Center | 10 years | 2011 | Revenue Sharing 
Knoxville, Tennessee | | | 
St. Vincent’s Medical Center | 10 years | 2011 | Revenue Sharing 
Jacksonville, Florida | | | 
Sacred Heart Medical Center | 10 years | 2013 | Revenue Sharing 
Pensacola, Florida | | | 
PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend | 10 years | 2014 | Revenue Sharing 
Eugene, Oregon | | | 
Orlando Health – UF Health Cancer Center | 10 years | 2016 | Revenue Sharing 
Orlando, Florida (PBRT) | | | 
Bryan Medical Center | 10 years | 2017 | Revenue Sharing 
Lincoln, Nebraska | | | 

 
The Company’s typical fee per use agreement is for a ten-year term. The fixed fee per use reimbursement amount that the Company receives from the customer is based on the Company’s cost to provide the service and the anticipated volume of the customer. The Gamma Knife contracts signed by the Company typically call for a fee ranging from $6,000 to $9,300 per procedure. There are no minimum volume guarantees required of the customer. In most cases, GKF is responsible for providing the Gamma Knife and related ongoing Gamma Knife equipment expenses (i.e., personal property taxes, insurance, and equipment maintenance) and also helps fund the customer’s Gamma Knife marketing. The customer generally is obligated to pay site and installation costs and the costs of operating the Gamma Knife. The customer can either renew the agreement or terminate the agreement at the end of the contractual term. If the customer chooses to terminate the agreement, then GKF removes the equipment from the medical center for possible placement at another site.
 
The Company’s typical revenue sharing agreements (“retail”) are for a period of ten years. Instead of receiving a fixed fee, the Company receives all or a percentage of the reimbursement (exclusive of physician fees) received by the customer. The Company is at risk for any reimbursement rate changes for radiosurgery or radiation therapy services by the government or other third-party payors. There are no minimum volume guarantees required of the customer.
 

7
-

 

One customer accounted for approximately 21%, 10%, and 10% of the Company’s total revenue in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, three and two customers each accounted for more than 10% of total accounts receivable, respectively.
 
MARKETING
 
The Company markets its Gamma Knife services through its preferred provider status with Elekta and a direct sales effort led by its Vice President of Sales and Business Development, its Chief Operating Officer and its Chief Executive Officer. The Company markets its PBRT service through a direct sales effort led by its Vice President of Sales and Business Development, its Chief Operating Officer and its Chief Executive Officer. The major advantages to a health care provider in contracting with the Company for its services include:

§ | The medical center avoids the high cost of owning the equipment. By not acquiring the equipment supplied by the Company, the medical center is able to allocate the funds otherwise required to purchase and/or finance the equipment to other projects.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


§ | The Company does not have minimum volume requirements, so the medical center avoids the risk of equipment under-utilization. The medical center pays the Company only for each procedure performed on a patient.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


§ | For contracts under revenue sharing arrangements, the Company assumes all or a portion of the risk of reimbursement rate changes. The medical center pays the Company only the contracted portion of revenue received from each procedure.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


§ | The medical center transfers the risk of technological obsolescence to the Company. The medical center and its physicians are not under any obligation to utilize technologically obsolete equipment.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


§ | The Company provides planning, installation, operating and marketing assistance and support to its customers.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING
 
The Company’s Gamma Knife business is operated through GKF. GKF generally finances its U.S. Gamma Knife units, upgrades and additions with loans or capital leases from various finance companies for typically 100% of the cost of each Gamma Knife, plus any sales tax, customs and duties. The financing is predominantly fully amortized over an 84-month period and is collateralized by the equipment, customer contracts and accounts receivable, and is generally without recourse to the Company and Elekta. The loan to finance the Company’s unit in Peru is guaranteed by GKF and collateralized by the Company’s stock in the subsidiary, GKPeru. The lease financing obtained by Orlando is guaranteed by the Company and collateralized by the equipment, customer contract and accounts receivable related to this project.
COMPETITION
 
Conventional neurosurgery, radiation therapy and other radiosurgery devices are the primary competitors of Gamma Knife radiosurgery. Gamma Knife radiosurgery has gained acceptance as an alternative and/or adjunct to conventional surgery due to its more favorable morbidity outcomes for certain procedures as well as its non-invasiveness. Utilization of the Company’s Gamma Knife units is contingent on the acceptance of Gamma Knife radiosurgery by the customer’s neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists and referring physicians. In addition, the utilization of the Company’s Gamma Knife units is impacted by the proximity of competing Gamma Knife centers and providers using other radiosurgery devices.

8
-

 

Conventional linear accelerator-based radiation therapy is the primary competitor of the Company’s proton therapy system at Orlando Health. Proton beam radiation therapy although available for many years is only recently emerging as a more clinically beneficial alternative to conventional linear accelerators for certain tumors. Utilization of the Company’s proton therapy system is dependent on the acceptance of this technology by Orlando Health’s radiation oncologists and referring physicians, as well as patient self-referrals. There are currently no competing proton therapy facilities in close proximity to the Company’s site.
 
There are several competing manufacturers of PBRT systems, including Mevion, IBA Particle Therapy Inc., Hitachi Ltd., Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (Accel), ProNova Solutions, LLC, Sumitomo Heavy Industries, ProTom International, Inc. and Mitsubishi Electric. The Company has purchased one MEVION S250 and has made deposits towards the purchase of two additional MEVION S250 systems. The Mevion system potentially provides cancer centers the opportunity to introduce single treatment room PBRT services with a cost in the range of approximately $25 to $35 million versus four and five PBRT treatment room programs costing in excess of $120 million. The MEVION S250 system received FDA approval in the second quarter of 2012 and the first clinical treatment occurred in December 2013 at Barnes-Jewish Hospital. The MEVION S250i (Hyperscan) unit, which includes pencil beam scanning, was FDA approved in December 2017. The Company’s first MEVION S250 system in operation at Orlando Health treated its first patient in April 2016. The Company currently does not have customer contracts for its second and third PBRT units.
 
The Company believes the business model it has developed for use in its Gamma Knife and IGRT placements can be tailored for the PBRT market segment. The Company is targeting large, hospital-based cancer programs. The Company’s ability to develop a successful PBRT financing entity depends on the decision of cancer centers to self-fund or to fund the PBRT through conventional financing vehicles, the Company’s ability to capture market share from competing alternative PBRT financing entities, and the Company’s ability to raise capital to fund PBRT projects.
 
The Company’s ability to secure additional customers for Gamma Knife services and other proton beam radiation therapy services, or other equipment, is dependent on its ability to effectively compete against the manufacturers of these systems selling directly to potential customers and other companies that outsource these services. The Company does not have an exclusive relationship with any manufacturer and has previously lost sales to customers that chose to purchase equipment directly from manufacturers. The Company may continue to lose future sales to such customers and may also lose sales to the Company’s competitors.
 
GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS
 
The Medicare program is administered by CMS of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”). Medicare is a health insurance program primarily for individuals 65 years of age and older, certain younger people with disabilities, and people with end-stage renal disease, and is provided without regard to income or assets.
 
The Medicare program is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the cost of providing services to patients and the timing of payments to our client hospitals.
 
The Company’s Gamma Knife, PBRT and IGRT customers receive payments for patient care from federal government and private insurer reimbursement programs. Currently in the United States, Gamma Knife, proton therapy and IGRT services are performed primarily on an out-patient basis. Gamma Knife patients with Medicare as their primary insurer, treated on either an in-patient or out-patient basis, comprise an estimated 35%-45% of the total Gamma Knife patients treated nationwide. PBRT and IGRT patients with Medicare as their primary insurer are treated primarily on an out-patient basis and comprise an estimated 45% to 50% of the total radiation therapy patients treated.
 

9
-

 

Congress enacted legislation in 2013 that significantly reduced the Medicare reimbursement rate for outpatient Gamma Knife treatment by setting it at the same amount paid for linear accelerator-based radio surgery treatment. Prior to April 1, 2013, Medicare’s reimbursement rate for Gamma Knife treatment had been relatively stable. Congress’s enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, however, reduced Medicare’s Gamma Knife reimbursement rate from approximately $9,900 to $5,300, effective April 1, 2013. This change caused a substantial reduction in the Company’s revenues during 2013 and 2014. Effective January 1, 2015, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) established a Comprehensive Ambulatory Payment Classification for single session radiosurgery treatments, which increased the reimbursement rate from approximately $4,100 to $9,700. The 2016 total CMS reimbursement rate of approximately $8,800 increased to approximately $9,000 in 2017 and will increase to approximately $9,100 in 2018 for a Medicare beneficiary Gamma Knife treatment. The Company’s IGRT services are reimbursed by CMS and other insurers. Reimbursement for these services has remained fairly stable. See additional discussion under “Item 1A Risk Factors”.
 
The hospital based 2016 Medicare delivery code reimbursement rate for PBRT established by CMS is $506 for simple without compensation and $1,051 for simple with compensation, intermediate or complex treatments. The 2017 scheduled CMS rates are $494 for simple without compensation and $994 for simple with compensation, intermediate or complex treatments. The 2018 scheduled CMS rates are $522 for simple without compensation and $1,053 for simple with compensation, intermediate or complex treatments. Patients typically undergo 25-40 delivery sessions. See additional discussion under “Item 1A Risk Factors – The Federal Reimbursement Rate for Gamma Knife Treatments Has Fluctuated”.
 
We are unable to predict the effect of future government health care funding policy changes on operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if one or more of our hospital clients are excluded from participation in the Medicare program or any other government health care program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business.
 
Affordable Care Act 
 In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, (“Affordable Care Act”), which has resulted in significant changes to the health care industry. The primary goal of the legislation was to extend health care coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured legal U.S. residents through both an expansion of public programs and reforms to private sector health insurance. According to the National Center for Health Statistics, in 2016 there were 28.6 million uninsured Americans down from more than 48.0 million in 2010. Of those covered by private insurance in 2016, 11.6 million had purchased their plans through federal or state-based exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act. The expansion of insurance coverage is expected to be funded in part by measures designed to promote quality and cost efficiency in health care delivery and by budgetary savings in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because the Company is not a health care provider, we are not directly affected by the law, but we could be indirectly affected principally as follows:

· | An increase in the number of insured residents could potentially increase the number of patients seeking Gamma Knife or radiation therapy treatment.
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


· | The Company’s retail contracts are subject to reimbursement rate changes for radiosurgery or radiation therapy services by the government or other third-party payors. Any changes to Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement through the repeal or modification of the Affordable Care Act could affect revenue generated from these sites.
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
The payment of remuneration to induce the referral of health care business has been a subject of increasing governmental and regulatory focus in recent years. Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act (sometimes referred to as the "federal anti-kickback statute") provides criminal penalties for individuals or entities that offer, pay, solicit or receive remuneration in order to induce referrals for items or services for which payment may be made under the Medicare and Medicaid programs and certain other government funded programs. The Affordable Care Act amended the anti-kickback statute to eliminate the requirement of actual knowledge, or specific intent to commit a violation, of the anti-kickback statute. The Social Security Act provides authorizes the Office of Inspector General through civil proceedings to exclude an individual or entity from participation in the Medicare and state health programs if it is determined any such party has violated Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute. Additionally, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, often referred to as "Stark II", bans physician self-referrals to providers of designated health services with which the physician has a financial relationship. On September 5, 2007, the third and final phase of the Stark regulations (Phase III) was published. The term "designated health services" includes, among others, radiation therapy services and in-patient and out-patient hospital services. On January 1, 1995, the Physician Ownership and Referral Act of 1993 became effective in California. This legislation prohibits physician self-referrals for covered goods and services, including radiation oncology, if the physician (or the physician's immediate family) concurrently has a financial interest in the entity receiving the referral. The Company believes that it is in compliance with these rules and regulations.

10
--

 

On August 19, 2008, the CMS published a final rule relating to inpatient hospital services paid under the Inpatient Prospective Payment System for discharges in the Fiscal Year 2009 (the “Final Rule”). Among other things, the Final Rule prohibits “per-click payments” to certain physician lessors for services rendered to patients who were referred by the physician lessor. This prohibition on per-click payments for leased equipment used in the treatment of a patient referred to a hospital lessee by a physician lessor applies regardless of whether the physician himself or herself is the lessor or whether the lessor is an entity in which the referring physician has an ownership or investment interest. The effective date of this prohibition was October 1, 2009. However, referrals made by a radiation oncologist for radiation therapy or ancillary services necessary for, and integral to, the provision of radiation therapy (such as Gamma Knife services) are not subject to this prohibition so long as certain conditions are met. GK Financing’s majority owned subsidiaries, AGKE and JGKE have minority ownership interests that are held solely by radiation oncologists, who are otherwise exempt from the referral prohibition under the Final Rule. The Company believes it is in compliance with the Final Rule.
 
A range of federal civil and criminal laws target false claims and fraudulent billing activities. One of the most significant is the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of a false claim or the making of a false record or statement in order to secure a reimbursement from a government-sponsored program. In recent years, the federal government has launched several initiatives aimed at uncovering practices which violate false claims or fraudulent billing laws. Claims under these laws may be brought either by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government, through a "whistleblower" or "qui tam" action. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the Federal False Claims Act; however, because such actions are filed under seal and may remain secret for years, there can be no assurance that the Company or one of its affiliates is not named in a material qui tam action.
 
Legislation in various jurisdictions requires that health facilities obtain a Certificate of Need ("CON") prior to making expenditures for medical technology in excess of specified amounts. Four of the Company’s existing customers were required to obtain a CON or its equivalent. The CON procedure can be expensive and time consuming and may impact the length of time before Gamma Knife services commence. CON requirements vary from state to state in their application to the operations of both the Company and its customers. In some jurisdictions the Company is required to comply with CON procedures to provide its services and in other jurisdictions customers must comply with CON procedures before using the Company's services. The Company is unable to predict if any jurisdiction will eliminate or alter its CON requirements in a manner that will increase competition and, thereby, affect the Company's competitive position.
 
The Company's Gamma Knife units contain Cobalt 60 radioactive sources. The medical centers that house the Company's Gamma Knife units are responsible for obtaining possession and user's licenses for the Cobalt 60 source from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The Company’s Gamma Knife center in Peru was responsible for obtaining possession and user’s licenses for the Cobalt-60 sources from the Peruvian Regulatory Agencies.
 
Standard linear accelerator equipment utilized to treat patients is regulated by the FDA. The licensing is obtained by the individual medical center operating the equipment.
 
The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the various rules and regulations that affect its businesses.
 

11
--

INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION
 
The Company's contracts with equipment vendors generally do not contain indemnification provisions. The Company maintains a comprehensive insurance program covering the value of its property and equipment, subject to deductibles, which the Company believes are reasonable.
 
The Company's customer contracts generally contain mutual indemnification provisions. The Company maintains general and professional liability insurance in the United States. The Company is not involved in the practice of medicine and therefore believes its present insurance coverage and indemnification agreements are adequate for its business. The Company’s Peruvian Gamma Knife center is a free-standing facility operated by GKPeru. GKPeru’s treating physicians and clinical staff are independent contractors. The Company maintains general and professional liability insurance consistent with the operations of this facility and believes its present coverage is adequate for its business.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
At December 31, 2017, the Company employed nine (9) people on a full-time basis. None of these employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and there is no union representation within the Company. The Company maintains various employee benefit plans and believes that its employee relations are good.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
The following table provides current information concerning those persons who serve as executive officers of the Company. The executive officers were appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Name: | Age: | Position: 
----------------------+------+---------------------------------------------------------------
Ernest A. Bates, M.D. | 81 | Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
Craig K. Tagawa | 64 | Senior Vice President - Chief Operating and Financial Officer 
Ernest R. Bates | 51 | Vice President of Sales and Business Development 

 
Ernest A. Bates, M.D., founder of the Company, has served in the positions listed above since the incorporation of the Company. A board-certified neurosurgeon, Dr. Bates is Emeritus Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees at Johns Hopkins University and serves on the Johns Hopkins Neurosurgery Advisory Board. He also serves on the boards of Shared Imaging and The School of Nursing Dean’s Advisory Council at UCSF. Dr. Bates currently serves as President and Director of the Ernest Bates Foundation. From 1981-1987 he was a member of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, and he served on the California High Speed Rail Authority from 1997 to 2003. Dr. Bates is a member of the Board of Overseers at the University of California, San Francisco, School of Nursing. He is a graduate of the School of Arts and Sciences of the Johns Hopkins University, and he earned his medical degree at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry.
 
Craig K. Tagawa has served as Chief Operating Officer since February 1999 in addition to serving as Chief Financial Officer since May 1996. Mr. Tagawa also served as Chief Financial Officer from January 1992 through October 1995. Previously a Vice President in such capacity, Mr. Tagawa became a Senior Vice President on February 28, 1993. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of GKF. From September 1988 through January 1992, Mr. Tagawa served in various positions with the Company. Mr. Tagawa currently serves as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Ernest Bates Foundation. He is a former Chair of the Industrial Policy Advisory Committee of the Engineering Research Center for Computer-Integrated Surgical Systems and Technology at The Johns Hopkins University. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his M.B.A. from Cornell University.
 

12
--

 

Ernest R. Bates joined the Company in January 2007 as Vice President of Sales and Business Development. He was on the Board of Directors of the Company from 2004 through February 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he had been Managing Director, Institutional Fixed Income Sales of HSBC Securities (USA), Inc. since 2003. Mr. Bates has also served as Managing Director, Head of Asian Product for HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. from 1999 to 2003. From 1993 through 1999, Mr. Bates held various positions with Merrill Lynch, last serving as Vice President, European Syndicate for Merrill Lynch International. He received his undergraduate degree from Brown University and a M.B.A. degree from The Wharton Business School. Ernest R. Bates is the son of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Ernest A. Bates.
 
AVAILABLE INFORMATION
 
Our Internet address is www.ashs.com. We make available free of charge, through our Internet website under the “Investor Center” tab in the “Corporate” section, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our Internet website is not part of this document.
