Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS
--------+---------

 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created in Section 21E. In particular, statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives or assumptions of future events or performance are contained or incorporated by reference in this report. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained herein are forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. While we believe these expectations are reasonable, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those discussed in this report under the heading “Risk Factors.” Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. When used in the report, unless otherwise indicated, “we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company” and “BioCryst” refer to BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains statements about our proposed strategic combination with Idera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Many risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements with respect to the pending transaction, and these risks, as well as other risks associated with the pending transaction, are more fully disclosed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that is included in the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-223255) that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the pending transaction.


Agreement and Plan of Merger
 
As further described in Note 13 to the financial statements, which includes the definitions of certain terms used below, on January 21, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the “Merger Agreement”, with Idera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Idera”), Nautilus Holdco, Inc. (“Holdco”), Island Merger Sub, Inc. (“Merger Sub A”) and Boat Merger Sub, Inc. (“Merger Sub B”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Idera will merge into Island Merger Sub, Inc. and BioCryst will merge into Boat Merger Sub, Inc. and each of Idera and BioCryst will survive the merger as wholly owned subsidiaries of Holdco. Upon completion of the mergers described therein (the “Mergers”), each issued and outstanding share of Idera common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.20 shares of Holdco common stock (the "Idera exchange ratio"), and each issued and outstanding share of BioCryst common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.50 shares of Holdco common stock (the "BioCryst exchange ratio" and together with the Idera exchange ratio, the "exchange ratios"). The exchange ratios will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of either BioCryst common stock or Idera common stock between the date of signing of the Merger Agreement and completion of the Mergers. Upon completion of the Mergers, each issued and outstanding share of Idera preferred stock (with certain exceptions) will be converted into the right to receive an amount of Holdco common stock based on its liquidation preference. On a pro forma, fully diluted basis, giving effect to all dilutive stock options, units and warrants, BioCryst stockholders will own 51.6% of the stock of the combined company and Idera stockholders will own 48.4%. The stock issuance in the Merger is expected to be tax-free to stockholders.
 
The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies. The transaction is subject to approval by the stockholders of both companies and satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Affiliates of Baker Bros. Advisors, LP ("Baker Brothers"), which, at the time of signing the Merger Agreement was the beneficial owner of approximately 14% of issued and outstanding BioCryst common stock and approximately 9% of issued and outstanding Idera common stock, have agreed, among other things, to vote their shares of BioCryst common stock and Idera common stock in favor of the proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement at each of the BioCryst special meeting and Idera special meeting. The combined company, which will be renamed post-closing, will be headquartered in Exton, PA, at the current Idera headquarters, with a consolidated research center in Birmingham, AL, at the current BioCryst facility.
 
On March 6, 2018, a purported stockholder of BioCryst filed a putative class action lawsuit against BioCryst, the BioCryst board of directors, Idera, Holdco, Merger Sub A and Merger Sub B in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, captioned Melvyn Klein v. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al., Case No. 1:18-cv-00358-UNA. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act because the preliminary Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission allegedly contains material omissions and misstatements. The complaint seeks, among other things, injunctive relief preventing the consummation of the Mergers until additional disclosures are made, and damages. BioCryst believes that the action is without merit.
 
The transaction is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2018. However, we have prepared this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as an independent company without giving effect to the Mergers.
 

4
-

Our Business
 
We are a biotechnology company that designs, optimizes and develops novel small molecule drugs that block key enzymes involved in the pathogenesis of diseases. We focus on oral treatments for rare diseases in which significant unmet medical needs exist and that align with our capabilities and expertise. We integrate the disciplines of biology, crystallography, medicinal chemistry and computer modeling to discover and develop small molecule pharmaceuticals through the process known as structure-guided drug design. Structure-guided drug design is a drug discovery approach by which we design synthetic compounds from detailed structural knowledge of the active sites of enzyme targets associated with particular diseases. We use X-ray crystallography, computer modeling of molecular structures and advanced chemistry techniques to focus on the three-dimensional molecular structure and active site characteristics of the enzymes that control cellular biology. Enzymes are proteins that act as catalysts for many vital biological reactions. Our goal generally is to design a compound that will fit in the active site of an enzyme and thereby prevent its catalytic activity. Molecules from our discovery efforts which are commercially available or that are in active development are summarized in the table below:

Drug/Drug Candidate | Drug Class | Therapeutic Area(s) | Phase | Rights 
---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RAPIVAB® (peramivir injection) | Intravenous Neuraminidase Inhibitor | Acute uncomplicated Influenza | Approved (US & Canada) | Seqirus (worldwide, except Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Israel) BioCryst retains full U.S. Government stockpiling rights
ALPIVABTM (peramivir injection) | Intravenous Neuraminidase Inhibitor | Acute uncomplicated Influenza | MAA filed and being reviewed by the EMA | Seqirus (worldwide, except Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Israel) 
RAPIACTA® (peramivir injection) | Intravenous Neuraminidase Inhibitor | Uncomplicated seasonal influenza | Approved (Japan & Taiwan) | Shionogi (Japan & Taiwan) 
PERAMIFLU® (peramivir injection) | Intravenous Neuraminidase Inhibitor | Uncomplicated seasonal influenza | Approved (Korea) | Green Cross (Korea) 
BCX7353 | Oral Serine Protease Inhibitor Targeting Plasma Kallikrein (intended to be a once-daily treatment) | Hereditary Angioedema (HAE) | Phase 3 | BioCryst (worldwide) 


Second Generation Kallikrein Inhibitors | Oral Serine Protease Inhibitors Targeting Plasma Kallikrein | HAE and other indications | Preclinical | BioCryst (worldwide) 
BCX9250 BCX9499 | Activin Receptor-Like Kinase-2 Inhibitors | Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP) | Preclinical | BioCryst (worldwide) 
Lead Candidate | New Molecular Entity | Undisclosed | Preclinical | BioCryst (worldwide) 
Galidesivir (formerly BCX4430) | RNA dependent-RNA Polymerase Inhibitor | Broad spectrum antiviral for 20 RNA viruses, including Ebola, Marburg, and Zika | Phase 1 | BioCryst (worldwide) 
Mundesine® (forodesine) | Oral Purine Nucleoside Phosphorylase Inhibitor | Oncology- PTCL | Approved (Japan) | Mundipharma (worldwide)


5
-

Business Strategy
 
Our business strategy is to create shareholder value by focusing our discovery and development efforts on oral drugs for rare diseases for which a significant unmet medical need exists. We select disease targets and product candidates in which a small molecule would offer a significant benefit over existing products or would be the first to market. We strive to advance our product candidate portfolio from discovery to commercial markets efficiently by utilizing a small group of talented and highly-skilled employees working in conjunction with strategic outsource partners. BioCryst is unique in its approach to treat orphan diseases with orally-administered, small molecules utilizing crystallography and structure-guided drug design. The principal elements of our strategy are: 

• | Focusing on High Value-Added Structure-Guided Drug Design Technologies. We utilize structure-guided drug design in order to most efficiently develop new therapeutic candidates. Structure-guided drug design is a process by which we design a product candidate through detailed analysis of the enzyme target, which the product candidate must inhibit in order to stop the progression of the disease or disorder. We believe that structure-guided drug design is a powerful tool for the efficient development of small-molecule product candidates that have the potential to be safe and effective. Our structure-guided drug design technologies typically allow us to design and synthesize multiple product candidates that inhibit the same enzyme target, with the goal of establishing broad patent protection and formulating compounds with competitive advantages.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Selecting Inhibitors that are Promising Product Candidates. We start by selecting disease targets with well-understood biology and characteristics that fit with our ability to utilize structure-guided drug design capabilities to build potent and specific enzyme inhibitors. Next, we narrow our selection of these product candidates based on product characteristics, such as initial indications of safety and biologic activity on the target.
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


• | Developing our Product Candidates Efficiently. An important element of our business strategy is to efficiently progress our product candidates through the development process. In order to accomplish this, we typically strive for disease targets with a defined clinical and regulatory pathway for approval. In addition, we control fixed costs and overhead by outsourcing with strategic partners and contractors or entering into license agreements with third parties, including the U.S. Government. We maintain a streamlined corporate infrastructure that focuses our expertise. By contracting with the U.S. Government and outsourcing certain aspects of our operations, we are able to control overhead costs and focus financial resources directly where they provide the most benefit and reduce our business risk. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
We are a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1986. Our corporate headquarters is located at 4505 Emperor Blvd., Suite 200, Durham, North Carolina 27703 and the corporate telephone number is (919) 859-1302. For more information about us, please visit our website at www.biocryst.com. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.
 
Peramivir injection (RAPIVAB®, RAPIACTA®, PERAMIFLU®, ALPIVABTM) 
 
Peramivir was most recently approved under a pediatric Supplemental New Drug Application (“sNDA”) in the United States in September 2017, extending its availability for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza to pediatric patients 2 years and older. It was approved in Canada in January 2017, and was originally approved in the United States in December 2014. Peramivir is indicated for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza in patients who have been symptomatic for no more than two days. Data from over 2,700 subjects treated with peramivir in 27 clinical trials was utilized to support original regulatory approval in these countries. We made RAPIVAB available for commercial sale in the U.S. through agreements with specialty distributorships during the 2014-2015 influenza season. On June 17, 2015, we announced that we licensed peramivir for the treatment of influenza to CSL Limited (“CSL”), a global biopharmaceutical company. Peramivir is being commercialized by a subsidiary of CSL called Seqirus UK Limited (“SUL” or “Seqirus”), which specializes in influenza prevention through the supply of seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccine to global markets. Under the terms of the agreement, SUL obtained worldwide rights to commercialize peramivir,with the exception of Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Israel. We retained all rights to pursue pandemic stockpiling orders for RAPIVAB from the U.S. Government, while SUL is responsible for government stockpiling outside the U.S. The product is not currently available in Canada. The parties have entered into the formal dispute resolution process under the License Agreement to resolve decisions related to the collaboration. With the out-license of peramivir to SUL, our main activities for RAPIVAB are to obtain a stockpiling procurement contract with the U.S. Government and to continue to fulfill our post-approval development requirements.


In January 2017, we announced that the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) has accepted the filing of our peramivir injection Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) for treatment of symptoms typical of influenza in adults 18 years and older. On February 22, 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) adopted a positive opinion for the treatment of uncomplicated influenza in adults and children from the age of 2 years and thereby recommended the granting of a Marketing Authorization for ALPIVABTM. The final EMA decision is expected in the second quarter of 2018. If the MAA is approved, Seqirus will have the ability to commercialize peramivir as ALPIVAB in the European Union for all 28 member states of the European Union, Norway and Iceland.


RAPIVAB was developed under a $234.8 million contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority within the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“BARDA/HHS”). See “Collaborations and In-License Relationships—BARDA/HHS” below for a further discussion of this development contract.
 
In January 2010, our partner Shionogi & Co., Ltd. (“Shionogi”) received the first approval for peramivir injection and launched it in Japan under the commercial name RAPIACTA. It is approved for the treatment of adults, children and infants with uncomplicated seasonal influenza and those patients at high-risk for complications associated with influenza. In August 2010, Green Cross Corporation (“Green Cross”) received marketing and manufacturing approval from the Korean Food & Drug Administration under the commercial name PERAMIFLU to treat patients with influenza A & B viruses, including pandemic H1N1 and avian influenza.
 

6
-

Hereditary Angioedema (“HAE”) Drug Candidates
 
HAE is a rare, severely debilitating and potentially fatal genetic condition that occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 people. HAE symptoms include recurrent episodes of edema in various locations, including the hands, feet, face, genitalia and airway. Airway swelling is particularly dangerous and can lead to death by asphyxiation. In addition, patients often have bouts of severe abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting caused by swelling in the intestinal wall. By inhibiting plasma kallikrein, our HAE drug candidates suppress bradykinin production. Bradykinin is the mediator of acute swelling attacks in HAE patients.
 
BCX7353: BCX7353 is a second generation HAE compound and our lead molecule that is being developed as a once-daily (“QD”) oral therapy for the prevention of HAE attacks (prophylaxis), as well as an acute therapy for HAE attacks. We have recently completed our Phase 2 prophylaxis program (with the completion of APeX-1 and subsequent FDA and EMA regulatory interactions) and are in the process of initiating APeX-2 and APeX-S, a Phase 3 and a long-term safety clinical trial, respectively, required for marketing authorization in the United States and Europe.
 
On October 27, 2015 The Japanese Ministry of Health Labor & Welfare (“MHLW”) announced that BioCryst’s BCX7353 was one of six products designated under MLHW’s Sakigake fast track review system. The Sakigake designation system promotes research and development in Japan, aiming at early market availability for innovative pharmaceutical products. This designation provides for additional interactions with the regulatory agency in Japan from early development through filing, prioritized development and review, and introduction of the product as soon as possible to address a serious unmet medical need. With the final results of APeX-1 available, we expect to reach agreement with the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (“PMDA”) and the MHLW in the first half of 2018 to determine the regulatory pathway and timeline for BCX7353 in Japan.
 
APeX-1 Phase 2 Trial in HAE: In August 2016, we announced that we had dosed the first subject in the Phase 2 APeX-1 clinical trial of BCX7353 for the orally administered QD prophylactic treatment of HAE. APeX-1 was a three-part, dose-ranging, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose ranging trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and efficacy of BCX7353 as a preventative treatment to eliminate or reduce the frequency of angioedema attacks in HAE patients. APeX-1 was a 28-day trial and was conducted in several European countries, Australia and Canada.


On February 27, 2017, we reported statistically significant and clinically meaningful reductions in attack frequency from our first interim analysis (part 1) of the multi-part APeX-1 clinical trial in HAE patients. On May 25, 2017, we announced positive results from a second interim analysis of our APeX-1 clinical trial. This second interim analysis was a composite of pooled data from Parts 1 and 2 of the clinical trial.
 
On September 5, 2017, we announced final results from the Phase 2 APeX-1 clinical trial in HAE patients. This final analysis evaluated data from all patients in Parts 1, 2 and 3 of the trial and evaluated four doses of BCX7353 ranging from 62.5 mg up to 350 mg for 28 days. The primary efficacy endpoint of APeX-1 was the number of angioedema attacks. Efficacy analyses were conducted for HAE attacks reported over the entire dosing interval (Days 1 through 28) and during the dosing period in which plasma concentrations of BCX7353 should be at steady-state conditions (Days 8 through 28). Secondary efficacy endpoints included severity and duration of angioedema attacks and measures of health-related quality of life. Safety was characterized through evaluation of adverse events and laboratory testing. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic effects were assessed through measurement of plasma drug levels and kallikrein inhibition.


Seventy-five subjects were randomized and included in the final analysis of pooled data from Parts 1, 2 and 3: 7 at 62.5 mg, 14 at 125 mg, 14 at 250 mg and 18 at 350 mg of BCX7353 QD; and 22 placebo. The qualifying attack rate was approximately 1/week. Baseline characteristics were generally well balanced across the treatment groups. Compliance with daily study drug dosing for 28 days was excellent (≥ 98% across all treatment groups). Subjects recorded angioedema symptoms in a diary; diary records were reviewed and attacks adjudicated by an independent expert group. The primary endpoint of the trial was the number of HAE attacks. The pre-specified per-protocol final analysis included data on a total of 67 subjects with Type 1 or Type 2 HAE completing > 90% of planned study drug doses. The percentage reductions by treatment group in the mean rate of angioedema attacks for the pre-defined effective dosing period (weeks 2 through 4) in BCX7353 treated subjects are indicated in the table below. Results from a pre-planned analysis of peripheral and abdominal attacks are also shown. Similar results to those shown were seen in the analysis of weeks 1 through 4 and the intent-to-treat population.



 | | Percentage change in attacks vs. placebo (p-Value) Per protocol population, weeks 2-4 of treatment
----------------+----+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 | N | All Attacks | Peripheral Attacks | Abdominal Attacks
BCX7353 350 mg | 14 | -58% (p < 0.001) | -90% (p < 0.001) | -5% (p=0.884) 
BCX7353 250 mg | 12 | -46% (p=0.006) | -66% (p=0.005) | -13% (p=0.700) 
BCX7353 125 mg | 13 | -73% (p < 0.001) | -79% (p < 0.001) | -63% (p=0.048) 
BCX7353 62.5 mg | 7 | -7% (p=0.715) | -25% (p=0.371) | +22% (p=0.578) 


7
-


The 125 mg dose level showed statistically significant and similar benefit for all attacks, and also when split into abdominal attacks and peripheral attacks. In contrast, at the 250 mg and 350 mg dose levels, there was no statistically significant effect for abdominal attacks, despite strong and statistically significant effects on peripheral attacks. Based on these findings, it is likely that subjects in the 250 mg and 350 mg arms recorded transient drug-related abdominal AEs as HAE attack symptoms in their diary. As expected, the lowest dose tested (62.5 mg QD) showed no statistically significant differences in attack rates (total, or when split into abdominal and peripheral) compared with placebo. The range of doses studied and associated results complete the dose response evaluation required to inform Phase 3 dose selection.
 
An analysis of the proportion of subjects achieving levels of percent reduction in attacks was also performed; this analysis compared on-study attack rate to qualifying attack rate for each subject. Response levels were defined as reductions of ≥50%, ≥70%, or ≥90%. Results for all dose groups indicated that the dose group with the highest proportion of responders using each definition was the 125 mg group, and was 4 to 5 times greater than the proportion of responders in the placebo group. The proportion of responders in the 62.5 mg group was similar to placebo.
 
In addition, we performed an exploratory ad hoc analysis of the placebo, 62.5 mg QD and 125 mg QD dose groups to examine the relationship of change in attack rate to dose and the effect of achieving target drug levels. The 125 mg group had a mean change in attack rate of -0.73 per week (improvement from qualifying) compared to -0.07 attacks per week for placebo and -0.24 attacks per week for the 62.5 mg QD dose group. The effect of achieving the target drug level (equivalent to 4 times EC50 against plasma kallikrein) at trough measured at steady state on study day 15 was also explored for subjects randomized to the placebo, 62.5 mg and 125 mg levels. Placebo subjects were assigned a zero drug level value. Subjects were categorized as achieving or not achieving the target level and the proportion of subjects in each of these two categories who had responses of reductions in ≥50%, ≥70%, or ≥90% in attack rate was compared and the odds ratios calculated. The odds for subjects achieving ≥50%, ≥70%, or ≥90% responses if the target drug level was met or exceeded were 5.6, 12.9 and 26.4 times higher respectively than for subjects who did not meet or exceed target drug level.
 
A significant increase in the proportion of attack-free subjects was observed in the 125 mg QD dose group compared to placebo (46% versus 10%, p= 0.033). Furthermore, a clinically important and statistically significant improvement in patient quality of life total score, measured using the AE-QoL (Quality of Life) instrument, was seen in the 125 mg QD group compared to placebo (p < 0.001). The mean improvement in the 125 mg QD group was more than four times the minimum clinically important difference.
 
Oral BCX7353 once-daily for 28 days was generally safe and well tolerated in subjects with HAE. No new clinically significant safety findings were seen in Part 3 of the trial from the two earlier component parts of the trial. Overall, there was one serious adverse event of moderate gastrointestinal infection that was determined by the investigator not to be drug-related. Study drug was discontinued before day 28 in three subjects in the BCX7353 350 mg treatment arm (unrelated pre-existing liver disorder; related gastroenteritis with liver disorder; and related vomiting/abdominal cramps). The most common treatment-emergent AEs in descending order of frequency were the common cold, headache, diarrhea, nausea and abdominal pain. Gastrointestinal AEs were infrequent at the 125 mg and 62.5 mg dose levels, and there were no clinically significant laboratory abnormalities at these dose levels, though increases in liver enzymes were observed in several subjects at higher dose levels. Adverse events in the gastrointestinal system organ class were more frequent in the 350 mg QD and 250 mg QD dose groups compared to placebo. Elevated liver enzymes were reported in several subjects, and an analysis of liver enzyme safety tests including alanine aminotransferase (“ALT”) levels showed that of 4 subjects who had elevations of ALT to more than or equal to 3 times the upper limit of normal (“ULN”), all 4 had prior exposure to androgens, 3 were in the 350 mg QD group, 1 was in the 250 mg QD group, and 3 had baseline (prior to study drug administration) elevations in ALT of close to or greater than 3 times the ULN.


Steady state BCX7353 plasma levels and kallikrein inhibition levels were consistent with previous analyses. Steady state trough drug levels (24 hours after dosing) exceeded the proposed target threshold for efficacy of 4 times the 50% effective concentration (EC 50) of 9ng/ml in 0%, 64%, 100% and 100% of subjects at the 62.5 mg, 125 mg, 250 mg and 350 mg dose levels, respectively.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2017, we completed regulatory interactions with the FDA and EMA and reached agreement on the Phase 3 program requirements to support NDA and MAA submissions for prophylactic treatment of HAE with BCX7353. Based upon this agreement, we began screening patients in the APeX-S and APeX-2 clinical trials, which are the significant aspects of the remaining development program. Accordingly, we have initiated screening for a 24-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trial studying two doses of BCX7353 (“APeX-2”). Patients will roll-over into a 24 week safety extension. Separately, we announced that we initiated a long-term safety trial (“APeX-S”), which will enroll approximately 160 patients who will be randomized to the two doses of BCX7353 included in APeX-2. Subjects will remain on study-drug for 48 weeks. On February 28, 2018, we announced that we had dosed the first patient in the APeX-S trial. We have received orphan drug status from the FDA for BCX7353.


ZENITH-1 Trial: On August 2, 2017, we announced the dosing of the first subject into ZENITH-1, a clinical trial studying up to three dosage strengths of a liquid formulation of BCX7353 given as a single oral dose for the acute treatment of angioedema attacks in patients with HAE. ZENITH-1 is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, adaptive dose-ranging trial of the efficacy, safety and tolerability of BCX7353 for treatment of acute angioedema attacks, and will enroll up to 60 subjects with HAE. Blinded study drug is being dosed as an oral liquid after onset of symptoms, for up to 3 attacks in each subject, with each subject receiving both BCX7353 (for 2 attacks) and placebo (for one attack) in a randomized sequence. The trial is structured with up to 3 consecutive cohorts testing single doses of 750 mg (36 subjects), 500 mg (up to 12 subjects) and 250 mg (up to 12 subjects), starting with 750 mg. Efficacy assessments include patient-reported composite visual analogue scale (“VAS”) scores, patient global assessment, change in symptoms, and use of rescue medication. Treatment effect will be assessed by comparing the proportion of BCX7353-treated and placebo-treated attacks that have a stable or improved composite VAS at 4 hours post dose. Enrollment has gone well with the trial thus far, and we have completed enrollment in the 750 mg cohort and have begun enrolling patients in the 500 mg cohort.

8
-

Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (“FOP”) Drug Candidates
 
FOP is a very rare disease that affects approximately 1 in 2 million people worldwide. In patients with FOP, minor trauma can result in rapid development of painful inflammatory masses. These progress over several weeks resulting in the replacement of the affected soft tissue by permanent bone masses. There is no cure for this condition, and there are no approved treatments for FOP.
 
On January 5, 2018, we announced the advancement of a program exploring activin receptor-like kinase-2 (“ALK2”) inhibitors for treatment of FOP. ALK2 enzyme is a part of the normal signaling pathway for bone formation and responds to binding its specific ligands (bone morphogenic proteins, or BMPs), by stimulating normal bone growth and renewal in healthy children and adults. Specific activating mutations of the ALK2 gene are seen in all cases of FOP. An activating mutation in ALK2 is necessary for the disease to occur, making the ALK2 kinase an ideal drug target for treatment of FOP with an ALK2 kinase inhibitor. We have begun an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”) enabling nonclinical development with our two optimized lead candidates, BCX9250 and BCX9499. BCX9250 and BCX9499 were selected from a number of potential candidates based on potency for the target kinase, selectivity, and safety screening criteria that included industry-standard in vitro panels and in vivo PK and safety studies in laboratory animals. We plan to complete IND-enabling manufacturing and nonclinical safety studies to support Phase 1 trials beginning in 2019, and as early as possible thereafter, clinical trials in patients with FOP.


The goal of the ALK2 inhibitor project at BioCryst is to discover and develop orally administered kinase inhibitor drug candidates that are able to slow or prevent the progressive formation of bone in soft tissues, also known as heterotopic ossification (“HO”). The two lead candidate molecules dramatically reduced HO in an experimental model of ALK2-driven HO in laboratory rats, with up to 89 percent reduction in volume of HO compared to controls.
 
Other Nondisclosed preclinical program
 
We have begun IND-enabling nonclinical development with a lead candidate in an undisclosed orphan disease. We are choosing not to disclose the therapeutic area/orphan disease for competitive reasons. We have evaluated a few promising candidates from a larger number of potential candidates based on potency for the target, selectivity, and safety screening criteria that included industry-standard in vitro panels and in vivo PK and safety studies in laboratory animals, and have selected a lead optimized compound to advance into IND-enabling nonclinical development studies. Similar to our FOP program, we plan to complete IND-enabling manufacturing and nonclinical safety studies to support Phase 1 trials beginning in 2019.


Galidesivir (formerly BCX4430)
 
Galidesivir is a broad-spectrum antiviral (“BSAV”) research program and is currently being developed under contracts with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (“NIAID/HHS”) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“BARDA/HHS”). The objective of our BSAV program is to develop galidesivir as a broad-spectrum therapeutic for viruses that pose a threat to national health and security. The primary focus of the program is treatment of hemorrhagic fever viruses. NIAID/HHS funding has supported galidesivir’s development as a treatment for Marburg virus and Ebola virus. In March 2014, galidesivir was featured in an online Nature publication depicting successful efficacy results in animal models of infection with Marburg virus and Ebola virus. Galidesivir completely protected cynomolgus macaques from Marburg virus infection when administered by intramuscular (“i.m.”) injection 48 hours post-infection. Post-exposure i.m. administration of galidesivir also protected rodents against Marburg virus and Ebola virus infections. In addition, galidesivir was shown to be active in vitro against a broad range of other RNA viruses. The publication, which reported the protection of non-human primates from filovirus disease by galidesivir, describes efficacy results generated from an ongoing collaboration between scientists in the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infection Diseases (“USAMRIID”) and us. Galidesivir has been shown to be active against more than 20 RNA viruses in nine different families, including filoviruses, togaviruses, bunyaviruses, arenaviruses, paramyxoviruses, coronaviruses and flaviviruses. In animal studies, galidesivir has demonstrated survival benefits against a variety of serious pathogens, including Ebola, Marburg, Yellow Fever and Zika viruses and from exposures to aerosolized Marburg virus, an experimental condition designed to mimic an exposure scenario that could result during a bioterrorist attack.
 
On December 15, 2014, we announced the dosing of the first subject in a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate i.m. administration of galidesivir in healthy volunteers. The main goals of this first-in-human study were to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of escalating doses of galidesivir administered via i.m. injection in healthy subjects. In part one of the study, subjects received a single dose of galidesivir; in part two of the study, subjects received galidesivir for seven days. There were six single-dose cohorts and four multiple-dose cohorts evaluated, and 91 healthy volunteers participated. In August 2016, we reported the results of this study. Galidesivir administered by i.m. injection was generally safe and well tolerated over the range of doses up to 10 mg/kg, and durations tested (up to 7 days). Fifty subjects received doses of study drug and there were no serious or severe adverse events. The most frequently reported adverse event across all cohorts was injection site pain and there were no clinically significant laboratory abnormalities which occurred at any doses. In addition, co-administration of lidocaine with galidesivir was determined to ameliorate injection site pain without altering the plasma pharmacokinetics profile of galidesivir. From this clinical trial, we determined galidesivir was safe and well tolerated, and that exposure was dose-proportional and supported the continued development of this BSAV drug candidate for serious emerging viral infections.



9
-


On December 23, 2014, we announced results from a successful proof-of-concept study of galidesivir for the treatment of experimental Ebola virus infection in Rhesus macaques, conducted at USAMRIID. The primary goal of the study was to assess the effect of galidesivir treatment on survival through Day 41 in animals infected with Ebola virus. Dosing of placebo or galidesivir by i.m. injection was initiated 30-120 minutes after virus challenge and continued twice a day (“BID”) for 14 days. Animals were dosed with either placebo, 16 mg/kg of galidesivir BID or 25 mg/kg of galidesivir BID. Survival at day 41 in the 16 mg/kg BID group of galidesivir treated animals was 4 of 6 (66.7%, p < 0.001 compared to 0% survival in controls) and 6 of 6 in the 25 mg/kg BID group (100%, p < 0.001 compared to controls). The overall survival rate for galidesivir treated animals at day 41 was 10 of 12 (83%, p < 0.001 compared to controls). Preliminary evaluation of the quantity of virus in the blood showed an approximate 3-log reduction in Ebola virus RNA copies/mL of plasma, compared with control animals. This Rhesus macaque study was conducted following the completion, in November 2014, of a dose-ranging study of galidesivir for the experimental treatment of cynomolgus macaques infected with Ebola virus. The cynomolgus macaque study was designed to evaluate whether galidesivir showed a meaningful benefit for survival in Ebola virus non-human primate (“NHP”) disease models and explore a dose range. In this study galidesivir demonstrated a statistically significant prolongation of survival for the animals at the highest dose regimen tested, but no animals survived beyond 21 days.
 
On March 7, 2016, results from a preclinical study of our antiviral galidesivir in interferon-receptor-deficient mice infected with Zika virus were presented at a World Health Organization (“WHO”) conference in Geneva, Switzerland. The primary goal of the study was to assess the effect of galidesivir treatment on survival through Day 28 in interferon-receptor-deficient mice infected with the Zika virus. Galidesivir was administered by i.m. injection twice a day beginning four hours prior to virus challenge and continuing for eight days; two dose levels were tested. In the standard dose galidesivir group, 7 of 8 mice survived through Day 28. In the low dose galidesivir group (n=8), and in control groups administered vehicle placebo (n=8) or ribavirin at two dose levels (n=16); no animals survived to Day 28. Overall survival for the standard dose level of galidesivir was superior to both the placebo and the ribavirin treatment control groups (p < 0.0001). For both dose levels of galidesivir, median survival was superior to both control groups (>28 days for galidesivir standard dose and 23 days for low dose) compared to 14 to 17 days for controls.
 
Additional studies of galidesivir in the same mouse model were conducted at Utah State University. In one study, surviving mice that were previously treated with the standard dose of galidesivir after initial Zika virus challenge were re-challenged with the Zika virus on Day 28, without additional galidesivir treatment. All the re-challenged mice survived through day 56 with no disease signs observed, indicating the development of effective immune responses. A further experiment using the same AG129 mouse model tested the delayed treatment with galidesivir after viral challenge. Groups of mice received galidesivir 150 mg/kg twice-daily by i.m. injection starting on days 1, 3, 5, or 7 post infection, or vehicle (control group). All galidesivir treated groups showed a statistically significant survival benefit compared to vehicle controls.
 
On October 7, 2017, galidesivir nonclinical results from a Zika virus infection model were presented at a scientific session at IDWeek by Dr. James B. Whitney, PhD, Assistant Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and Principal Investigator in the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. A total of 74 Rhesus macaques infected with a Puerto Rican ZIKV isolate by various routes were studied, 55 treated with galidesivir and 19 with vehicle. Galidesivir i.m. was started at different times relative to virus challenge in different treatment groups - from 90 minutes to 72 hours after subcutaneous (“SC”) ZIKV challenge, and up to 5 days after intravaginal (“IVAG”) challenge. Efficacy of galidesivir was evaluated over a range of loading and maintenance doses; the highest consisted of a one-day loading dose of 100mg/kg BID followed by a maintenance dose of 25mg/kg BID for nine days. Outcome measures included virology – ZIKV RNA levels in plasma, urine, saliva, and cerebrospinal fluid (“CSF”) – galidesivir pharmacokinetics, cellular and humoral immunologic markers, complete blood counts, and clinical chemistries.
 
All vehicle-treated control, animals developed high levels of Zika virus in the blood plasma (viremia), and had readily detectable ZIKV RNA in CSF, saliva and urine post-infection. In contrast, all animals treated with galidesivir in the first 24 hours after SC ZIKV challenge did not develop viremia, and were either negative for or had significantly reduced ZIKV RNA in bodily fluids. Animals treated with galidesivir later (up to 72 hours post infection) were partially protected – they had detectable plasma ZIKV RNA, but the onset of viremia was delayed, and its magnitude was significantly reduced compared to controls. Animals infected via the IVAG route were protected by galidesivir treatment when dosing was delayed as late as 5 days after infection, with no viremia and significant reductions in ZIKV RNA in the CSF compared with controls. Galidesivir was well-tolerated and offered significant protection against ZIKV challenge.
 
After multiple discussions with the FDA, NIAID/HHS, and BARDA/HHS regarding the most appropriate future development path for galidesivir, we will focus our efforts on Marburg virus. While both Ebola and Marburg infections represent significant medical countermeasure (“MCM”) emergencies or threats to the United States, we have concluded the greatest unmet medical need is now to develop a MCM to address the threat of Marburg infection. Accordingly, we plan to open an IND for galidesivir i.v. for post-exposure prophylaxis and treatment of Marburg infection.
 
Mundesine (forodesine)
 
Mundesine is a Purine Nucleoside Phosphorylase (“PNP”) inhibitor developed by Mundipharma as a treatment for cancer under a world-wide license agreement. PNP is a purine salvage pathway enzyme. High doses of PNP inhibitors could be useful in the treatment of hematological malignancies. Mundipharma has received orphan drug status for Mundesine, and following its successful completion of a Phase 2 pivotal study in recurrent/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (“PTCL”) patients in Japan it was approved in April 2017 by the MHLW in Japan as Mundesine. We are currently receiving royalties on Mundesine.



10
--


On November 11, 2011, we entered into an Amended and Restated License and Development Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Agreement”) with Mundipharma, amending and restating the February 1, 2006 exclusive, royalty-bearing Development and License Agreement for the development and commercialization of Mundesine for use in the field of oncology. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Agreement, Mundipharma obtained worldwide rights to Mundesine, so Mundipharma controls the worldwide development and commercialization of Mundesine and assumes all future development and commercialization costs. 
 
We have licensed the PNP technology from Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University (“AECOM”) and Industrial Research, Ltd. (“IRL”) and will owe sublicense payments to AECOM/IRL based on the future milestone payments and royalties received by us from Mundipharma and any other partners for which we out-license our PNP inhibitors. On November 17, 2011, we amended our agreement with AECOM/IRL whereby AECOM/IRL agreed to accept a reduction of one-half of the percentage of Net Proceeds (as defined in the license agreement) received by us under our Amended and Restated Agreement with Mundipharma. This reduction does not apply to royalty payments made as a result of sales of licensed products by our sub licensees.
 
Collaborations and In-License Relationships
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“BARDA/HHS”). In January 2007, BARDA/HHS awarded us a $102.6 million, four-year contract for the advanced development of peramivir for the treatment of influenza. During 2009, peramivir clinical development shifted to focus on intravenous delivery and the treatment of hospitalized patients. To support this focus, a September 2009 contract modification was awarded to extend the i.v. peramivir program and to increase funding by $77.2 million. On February 24, 2011, we announced that BARDA/HHS had awarded us a $55.0 million contract modification, intended to fund completion of the Phase 3 development of i.v. peramivir for the treatment of patients hospitalized with influenza. That contract modification brought the total contract award from BARDA/HHS to $234.8 million and provided funding to support the filing of an NDA to seek regulatory approval for i.v. peramivir in the U.S. In December 2014, the FDA approved the NDA. The BARDA/HHS contract expired on June 30, 2014 according to its terms.
 
On March 31, 2015, we announced that BARDA/HHS awarded us a contract for the continued development of galidesivir as a potential treatment for diseases caused by RNA pathogens, including filoviruses. This BARDA/HHS contract has a potential value of $39.1 million if all contract options are exercised. As of December 31, 2017, a total of $20.6 million has been awarded under exercised options within this contract.
 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (“NIAID/HHS”). In September 2013, NIAID/HHS contracted with us for the development of galidesivir as a treatment for Marburg, and subsequently, Ebola virus disease. NIAID/HHS, part of the National Institutes of Health, made an initial award of $5.0 million to us. All options under this contract have been awarded and the total contract value is $39.5 million. The goals of this contract, including amendments, are to file IND applications for i.v. and i.m. galidesivir for the treatment of Marburg virus disease and other hemorrhagic fever viruses, to study galidesivir as a treatment for Ebola virus disease, and to conduct a Phase 1 human clinical trials.
 
The contracts with BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS are cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts. That is, we are entitled to receive reimbursement for all costs incurred in accordance with the contracts provisions that are related to the development of galidesivir plus a fixed fee, or profit. BARDA/HHS and NIAID/HHS will make periodic assessments of progress and the continuation of the contract is based on our performance, the timeliness and quality of deliverables, and other factors. The government has rights under certain contract clauses to terminate these contracts. These contracts are also terminable by the government at any time for breach or without cause.
 
Seqirus UK Limited. On June 16, 2015, we and SUL, a limited company organized under the laws of the United Kingdom and a subsidiary of CSL, a company organized under the laws of Australia, entered into a License Agreement (the “SUL Agreement”) granting SUL and its affiliates worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize peramivir for the treatment of influenza except for the rights to conduct such activities in Israel, Japan, Korea and Taiwan (the permitted geographies together constituting the “Territory”). Peramivir is an intravenous treatment for acute uncomplicated influenza and is currently approved for use in the United States, Canada, Japan, Taiwan and Korea. RAPIVAB is the first and only intravenous influenza treatment in the world and was originally approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in December 2014 for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza in patients 18 years and older who have been symptomatic for no more than two days. We retain all rights and associated economics to procure pandemic stockpiling orders for RAPIVAB from the U.S. Government, while SUL has the right to pursue government stockpiling outside the U.S. 

Pursuant to the SUL Agreement, peramivir is being commercialized by CSL's subsidiary, SUL, which specializes in influenza prevention through the supply of seasonal and pandemic vaccine to global markets. SUL is responsible for the manufacture, commercialization and decision-making authority with respect to the development and commercialization of peramivir within the Territory and is responsible for all related costs, including sales and promotion. We exercise sole decision-making authority with regard to the development and commercialization of peramivir outside of the Territory and are responsible for all associated costs. 



11
--


Under the terms of the SUL Agreement, we are responsible for fulfilling all post-marketing approval commitments in connection with the FDA's approval of the NDA, and upon fulfillment will transfer ownership of and financial responsibility for the NDA to SUL. Pursuant to potential rights to sell ALPIVAB in the EU, we are also responsible for regulatory filings and interactions with the European Medicines Agency until marketing approval for ALPIVAB is obtained and assigned to SUL. In accordance with the SUL Agreement, we and SUL formed a joint steering committee, composed of an equal number of representatives from each party, to oversee, review and coordinate the conduct and progress of the commercialization of peramivir in the Territory and any additional development. The parties have entered into the formal dispute resolution process under the License Agreement to resolve decisions related to the collaboration.


Under the terms of the SUL Agreement, we received an upfront payment of $33.7 million, have received $7.0 million of milestone payments and may receive an additional $5.0 million milestone payment related to the successful marketing approval by the EMA for an adult indication in the EU. We are also entitled under the SUL Agreement to receive tiered royalties at a percentage rate beginning in the mid-teens contingent upon meeting minimum thresholds of net sales, as well as a low-thirties percentage of the gross profit from government stockpiling purchases made outside the U.S. Specifically, we receive tiered royalties at a percentage rate in the mid-teens to low-forties on net sales in the U.S. during a Contract Year (defined as July 1 - June 30) and tiered royalties at a percentage rate in the mid-teens to mid-twenties on net sales in the Territory, other than in the U.S., during a Calendar Year, each subject to certain downward adjustments for circumstance or events impacting the overall market opportunity. SUL's royalty payment obligations commence on the date of the SUL Agreement and expire, on a country-by-country basis, upon the later of (i) the expiration of legal exclusivity in such country and (ii) ten years from the date of the SUL Agreement (the "Royalty Term"). We developed RAPIVAB under a license from UAB and will owe sublicense payments to them on any future milestone payments and/or royalties received by us from SUL.
 
The term of the SUL Agreement shall continue on a country-by-country basis until the expiration of the last-to-expire Royalty Term in any such country in the Territory. Either party may terminate the SUL Agreement in its entirety if the other party breaches a payment obligation, otherwise materially breaches the SUL Agreement, subject to applicable cure periods, or if the other party suffers an insolvency event. We may also terminate the SUL Agreement if SUL or any of its affiliates seek to challenge the validity of our patents. Termination does not affect a party's rights which have accrued prior thereto, but there are no stated payments in connection with termination other than payments of obligations previously accrued. For all terminations exercised by us, the SUL Agreement provides for the termination of any sublicenses granted by SUL to third parties, and in the case of termination by us for cause, the ceasing of SUL's activities with respect to RAPIVAB, the discontinued use of all of our intellectual property and the termination of licenses and rights previously granted to SUL. If requested by us, SUL shall also promptly sell to us all licensed product it then holds in stock, otherwise, SUL may continue to sell such licensed product for designated periods.
 
Shionogi & Co., Ltd. (“Shionogi”). On February 28, 2007, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the “Shionogi Agreement”), an exclusive license agreement with Shionogi to develop and commercialize peramivir in Japan for the treatment of seasonal and potentially life-threatening human influenza. In October 2008, we and Shionogi amended the Shionogi Agreement to expand the territory covered by the agreement to include Taiwan. Under the terms of the Shionogi Agreement, Shionogi obtained rights to injectable formulations of peramivir in Japan in exchange for a $14.0 million upfront payment. The license provided for development milestone payments (up to $21.0 million), which have all been paid, and for commercial milestone payments (up to $95.0 million) in addition to double-digit (between 10% and 20%) royalty payments on product sales of peramivir.
 
In December 2017, we, on behalf of Royalty Sub (defined below), instituted arbitration proceedings against Shionogi in order to resolve a dispute with Shionogi under the Shionogi Agreement regarding the achievement of sales milestones and escalating royalties. In the event that we prevail in the arbitration, any amounts realized in the arbitration or in respect of the milestone payments and escalating royalties that are the subject of the arbitration would be for the benefit of Royalty Sub and be used by Royalty Sub to service its obligations under the non-recourse PhaRMA Notes (defined below), except for any amounts realized by us in respect of royalties relating to sales to Japanese governmental entities, which amounts would be retained by us. The costs associated with the arbitration proceedings are expected to be paid out of the assets of Royalty Sub in accordance with the terms of the indenture and servicing agreement relating to the PhaRMA Notes, except to the extent such costs are recovered in connection with any arbitration award in favor of us and Royalty Sub if they prevail in the arbitration proceedings. Arbitration proceedings, like other legal proceedings, are inherently uncertain. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in the arbitration. As any arbitration award in favor of us would accrue primarily to the benefit of Royalty Sub and the holders of the PhaRMA Notes, and because the costs associated with the arbitration proceedings are expected to come out of the assets of Royalty Sub if not recovered as part of any arbitration award in favor of us and Royalty Sub, we do not currently anticipate that these arbitration proceedings will have a material adverse impact on us.



12
--


Generally, all payments under the Shionogi Agreement are non-refundable and non-creditable, but they are subject to audit. Shionogi is responsible for all development, regulatory, and marketing costs in Japan. The term of the Shionogi Agreement is from February 28, 2007 until terminated. Either party may terminate in the event of an uncured breach. Shionogi has the right of termination without cause. In the event of termination, all license and rights granted to Shionogi shall terminate and shall revert back to us. We developed peramivir under a license from the University of Alabama Birmingham (“UAB”) and have paid sublicense payments to UAB on the upfront payments and will owe sublicense payments on any future event payments and/or royalties received by us from Shionogi.
 
Shionogi Royalty Monetization and Non-Recourse Notes Payable. On March 9, 2011, we completed a $30.0 million financing transaction to monetize certain future royalty and milestone payments under the Shionogi Agreement, pursuant to which JPR Royalty Sub LLC (“Royalty Sub”) a wholly-owned subsidiary of BioCryst, issued the PhaRMA Notes discussed below. We received net proceeds of $22.7 million from this transaction.
 
As part of the transaction, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement dated as of March 9, 2011 with Royalty Sub, whereby we transferred to Royalty Sub, among other things, (i) its rights to receive certain royalty and milestone payments from Shionogi arising under the Shionogi Agreement, and (ii) the right to receive payments under a Japanese yen/US dollar foreign currency hedge arrangement (as further described below, the “Currency Hedge Agreement”) put into place by us in connection with the transaction. Royalty payments will be paid by Shionogi in Japanese yen and milestone payments will be paid in U.S. dollars. Our collaboration with Shionogi was not impacted by this transaction.
 
On March 9, 2011, Royalty Sub completed a private placement to institutional investors of $30.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its PhaRMA Senior Secured 14.0% Notes due 2020 (the “PhaRMA Notes”). The PhaRMA Notes were issued by Royalty Sub under an Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2011 (the “Indenture”), by and between Royalty Sub and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. Principal and interest on the PhaRMA Notes issued are payable from, and are secured by, the rights to royalty and milestone payments under the Shionogi Agreement transferred by us to Royalty Sub and payments, if any, made to Royalty Sub under the Currency Hedge Agreement. The PhaRMA Notes bear interest at 14% per annum, payable annually in arrears on September 1st of each year (the “Payment Date”). We remain entitled to receive any royalties and milestone payments related to sales of peramivir by Shionogi following repayment by Royalty Sub of the PhaRMA Notes.
 
Royalty Sub’s obligations to pay principal and interest on the PhaRMA Notes are obligations solely of Royalty Sub and are without recourse to any other person, including the Company, except to the extent of our pledge of its equity interests in Royalty Sub in support of the PhaRMA Notes. We may, but are not obligated to, make capital contributions to a capital account that may be used to redeem, or on up to one occasion pay any interest shortfall on, the PhaRMA Notes.
 
In September 2014, Royalty Sub was unable to pay the full amount of interest payable in September 2013 by the next succeeding Payment Date for the PhaRMA Notes. This inability constituted an event of default under the terms of the Indenture. Accordingly, we have classified the PhaRMA Notes and related accrued interest as current liabilities on our balance sheet. As a result of the event of default under the PhaRMA Notes, the holders of the PhaRMA Notes may pursue acceleration of the PhaRMA Notes, may foreclose on the collateral securing the PhaRMA Notes and the equity interest in Royalty Sub and exercise other remedies available to them under the Indenture in respect of the PhaRMA Notes. In such event, we may not realize the benefit of future royalty payments that might otherwise accrue to us following repayment of the PhaRMA Notes and we might otherwise be adversely affected. Due to the non-recourse nature of the PhaRMA Notes, in the event of any potential acceleration or foreclosure, we believe the primary impact to us would be the loss of future royalty payments from Shionogi and legal costs associated with retiring the PhaRMA Notes. In addition, we may incur costs associated with liquidating the related Currency Hedge Agreement, which would no longer be required in the event of foreclosure or if the PhaRMA Notes cease to be outstanding. As the PhaRMA Notes are the obligation of Royalty Sub, we do not currently expect the event of default on the PhaRMA Notes to have a significant impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, the PhaRMA Notes remain in default.


The Indenture does not contain any financial covenants. The Indenture includes customary representations and warranties of Royalty Sub, affirmative and negative covenants of Royalty Sub, Events of Default and related remedies, and provisions regarding the duties of the Trustee, indemnification of the Trustee, and other matters typical for indentures used in structured financings of this type. The PhaRMA Notes are redeemable at the option of Royalty Sub at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal balance of the PhaRMA Notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date on the PhaRMA Notes being redeemed.
 
Foreign Currency Hedge. In connection with the issuance by Royalty Sub of the PhaRMA Notes, we entered into a Currency Hedge Agreement to hedge certain risks associated with changes in the value of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Under the Currency Hedge Agreement, we have the right to purchase dollars and sell yen at a rate of 100 yen per dollar for which we may be required to pay a premium in each year from 2018 through 2020. A payment of $2.0 million will be required if, on May 18 of the relevant year, the U.S. dollar is worth 100 yen or less, as determined in accordance with the Currency Hedge Agreement.
 
The Currency Hedge Agreement does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment; therefore, mark-to-market adjustments are recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss. Cumulative mark-to-market adjustments resulted in losses of $1.8 million, $1.7 million and $0.6 million for the twelve months ended December 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In addition, realized currency exchange gains of $1.0 million, $0.8 million and $1.7 million were recognized in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to the exercise of a U.S. dollar/Japanese yen currency option under our foreign currency hedge. We are also required to post collateral in connection with the mark-to-market adjustments based on defined thresholds. As of December 31, 2017, no collateral was posted under the Currency Hedge Agreement. We will not be required at any time to post collateral exceeding the maximum premium payments remaining payable under the Currency Hedge Agreement. The maximum amount of hedge collateral we would be required to post is $5.9 million. We are required to maintain a foreign currency hedge at 100 yen per dollar under the agreements governing the PhaRMA Notes.
 

13
--

Green Cross. In June 2006, we entered into an agreement with Green Cross to develop and commercialize peramivir in Korea. Under the terms of the agreement, Green Cross is responsible for all development, regulatory, and commercialization costs in Korea. We received a one-time license fee of $250,000. The license provides that we will share in profits resulting from the sale of peramivir in Korea, including the sale of peramivir to the Korean government for stockpiling purposes. Furthermore, Green Cross will pay us a premium over its cost to supply peramivir for development and any future marketing of peramivir products in Korea. Both parties have the right to terminate in the event of an uncured material breach. In the event of termination, all rights, data, materials, products and other information would be transferred to us.
 
In August 2010, we announced that Green Cross had received marketing and manufacturing approval from the Korean Food & Drug Administration for i.v. peramivir, under the commercial name PERAMIFLU®. PERAMIFLU is intended to treat patients with influenza A & B viruses, including pandemic H1N1 and avian influenza. Green Cross received the indication of single dose administration of 300 mg i.v. peramivir.
 
Other Peramivir Collaborations. In addition to our collaborations with Shionogi and Green Cross, in March 2011 we entered into an arrangement with Neopharm Scientific Limited, granting certain commercial and distribution rights for peramivir in Israel.
Mundipharma. In February 2006, we entered into an exclusive, royalty bearing right and license agreement with Mundipharma for the development and commercialization of Mundesine, a PNP inhibitor, for use in oncology (the “Original Agreement”). Under the terms of the Original Agreement, Mundipharma obtained rights to Mundesine in markets across Europe, Asia, and Australasia in exchange for a $10.0 million up-front payment. In addition, Mundipharma contributed $10.0 million of the documented out-of-pocket development costs incurred by us in respect of the current and planned trials as of the effective date of the agreement, and Mundipharma would conduct additional clinical trials at their own cost up to a maximum of $15.0 million.


On November 11, 2011, we entered into the Amended and Restated Agreement with Mundipharma (the “Amended and Restated Agreement”). Under the terms of this Amended and Restated Agreement, Mundipharma obtained worldwide rights to Mundesine in the field of oncology. Mundipharma will control the development and commercialization of Mundesine and assume all future development and commercialization costs. The Amended and Restated Agreement provides for the possibility of future event payments totaling $15.0 million for achieving specified regulatory events for certain indications. In addition, the Amended and Restated Agreement provides that we will receive tiered royalties ranging from mid- to high-single digit percentages of net product sales in each country where Mundesine is sold by Mundipharma. These royalties are subject to downward adjustments based on the then-existing patent coverage and/or the availability of generic compounds in each country. Generally, all payments under the Amended and Restated Agreement are nonrefundable and non-creditable, but they are subject to audit. We licensed forodesine and other PNP inhibitors from AECOM/IRL and will owe sublicense payments to AECOM/IRL on all milestone payments and royalties received by us from Mundipharma.


Mundipharma will also have a right of exclusive negotiations with us for a limited period of time if they initiate negotiations for a specified backup PNP inhibitor. Otherwise, they will be able to participate in the same negotiations process we enter into with another company for the backup PNP inhibitor. The Amended and Restated Agreement will continue for the commercial life of the licensed products, but may be terminated by either party following an uncured material breach by the other party or in the event the pre-existing third party license with AECOM/IRL expires. It may be terminated by Mundipharma upon 60 days written notice without cause or under certain other conditions as specified in the Amended and Restated Agreement. If Mundipharma terminates the Amended and Restated Agreement, Mundipharma would no longer have any rights in Mundesine and the rights would revert back to us; provided, however, that in the event the we determine to subsequently use the data developed under the Amended and Restated Agreement for development and commercialization of Mundesine in the field of oncology, then we would have to pay Mundipharma 150% of the cost of such data for such use.


Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and Industrial Research, Ltd. (“AECOM” and “IRL” respectively).  In June 2000, we licensed a series of potent inhibitors of PNP from AECOM and IRL, (collectively, the “Licensors”). The lead product candidate from this collaboration is forodesine. We have obtained worldwide exclusive rights to develop and ultimately distribute it, or any other, product candidates that might arise from research on these inhibitors. We have the option to expand our license agreement with the Licensors to include other inventions in the field made by the investigators or employees of the Licensors. We agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop these drugs. In addition, we have agreed to pay certain milestone payments for each licensed product (which range in the aggregate from $1.4 million to almost $4.0 million per indication) for future development of these inhibitors, single digit royalties on net sales of any resulting product made by us, and to share approximately one quarter of future payments received from other third-party partners, if any. In addition, we have agreed to pay annual license fees, which can range from $150,000 to $500,000, that are creditable against actual royalties and other payments due to the Licensors. This agreement may be terminated by us at any time by giving 60 days advance notice or in the event of material uncured breach by the Licensors.
 

14
--


In May 2010, we amended the license agreement through which we obtained worldwide exclusive rights to develop and ultimately distribute any product candidates that might arise from research on a series of PNP inhibitors, including forodesine. Under the terms of the amendment, the Licensors agreed to accept a reduction of one-half in the percentage of future payments received from third-party sub licensees of the licensed PNP inhibitors that must be paid to the Licensors. This reduction does not apply to (i) any milestone payments we may receive in the future under our license agreement with Mundipharma and (ii) royalties received from its sub licensees in connection with the sale of licensed products, for which the original payment rate will remain in effect. The rate of royalty payments to the Licensors based on net sales of any resulting product made by us remains unchanged. At our sole option and subject to certain agreed upon conditions, any future non-royalty payments due to be paid by us to the Licensors under the license agreement may be made either in cash, in shares of our common stock, or in a combination of cash and shares. 
 
On November 17, 2011, we further amended our agreements with the Licensors whereby the Licensors agreed to accept a reduction of one-half in the percentage of Net Proceeds (as defined in the license agreement) received by us under our Amended and Restated Agreement with Mundipharma that will be paid to AECOM/IRL. 
 
On June 19, 2012, we further amended our agreements with the Licensors whereby the parties clarified the definition of the field with respect to PNP inhibition and the Licensors agreed to grant an exclusive worldwide license of galidesivir to us for any antiviral use. 
 
The University of Alabama at Birmingham (“UAB”). We currently have agreements with UAB for influenza neuraminidase and complement inhibitors. Under the terms of these agreements, UAB performed specific research for us in return for research payments and license fees. UAB has granted us certain rights to any discoveries in these areas resulting from research developed by UAB or jointly developed with us. We have agreed to pay single digit royalties on sales of any resulting product and to share in future payments received from other third-party partners. We have completed the research under the UAB agreements. These two agreements have initial 25-year terms, are automatically renewable for five-year terms throughout the life of the last patent and are terminable by us upon three months’ notice and by UAB under certain circumstances. Upon termination both parties shall cease using the other parties’ proprietary and confidential information and materials, the parties shall jointly own joint inventions and UAB shall resume full ownership of all UAB licensed products. There is currently no activity between us and UAB on these agreements, but when we license this technology, such as in the case of the Shionogi and Green Cross agreements, or commercialize products related to these programs, we will owe sublicense fees or royalties on amounts it receives.
 
Government Contracts
 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (“NIAID/HHS”). In September 2013, NIAID/HHS contracted with us for the development of galidesivir as a treatment for Marburg, and subsequently, Ebola virus disease. NIAID/HHS, part of the National Institutes of Health, made an initial award of $5.0 million to us. All options under this contract have been awarded and the total contract value is $39.5 million. The goals of this contract, including amendments, are to file IND applications for i.v. and i.m. galidesivir for the treatment of Marburg virus disease and other hemorrhagic fever viruses, to study galidesivir as a treatment for Ebola virus disease and to conduct a Phase 1 human clinical trial.
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“BARDA/HHS”). On March 31, 2015, we announced that BARDA/HHS awarded us a contract for the continued development of galidesivir as a potential treatment for diseases caused by RNA pathogens, including filoviruses. This BARDA/HHS contract has a potential value of $39.1 million if all contract options are exercised. As of December 31, 2017, a total of $20.6 million has been awarded under exercised options within this contract.
 
The contracts with NIAID/HHS and BARDA/HHS are cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts. That is, we are entitled to receive reimbursement for all costs incurred in accordance with the contracts provisions that are related to the development of peramivir and galidesivir plus a fixed fee, or profit. NIAID/HHS and BARDA/HHS will make periodic assessments of progress and the continuation of the contract is based on our performance, the timeliness and quality of deliverables, and other factors. The government has rights under certain contract clauses to terminate these contracts. These contracts are also terminable by the government at any time for breach or without cause.



15
--

Patents and Proprietary Information
 
Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other proprietary technologies, preserve our trade secrets, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of other parties, both in the United States and in other countries. We own or have rights to certain proprietary information, proprietary technology, issued and allowed patents and patent applications which relate to compounds we are developing. We actively seek, when appropriate, protection for our products, proprietary technology and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and contractual arrangements. In addition, we rely upon trade secrets and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information, proprietary technology and products.
 
The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims once granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates or those developed by our partners can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent.
 
As of December 31, 2017, we have been issued approximately 16 U.S. patents that expire between 2018 and 2034 and that relate to our HAE program compounds, neuraminidase inhibitor compounds, BSAV compounds and PNP compounds. We have licensed a number of compounds protected by certain composition of matter patents from AECOM and IRL, plus additional manufacturing patents, totaling 7 additional U.S. patents that expire between 2020 and 2029. Additionally, we have approximately 11 Patent Cooperation Treaty or U.S. patent applications pending related to HAE program compounds, neuraminidase inhibitor compounds, BSAV compounds, PNP compounds and FOP program compounds. Our pending applications may not result in issued patents, our patents may not cover the products of interest or may not be enforceable in all, or any jurisdictions and our patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. After expiration of composition of matter patents for our products and product candidates, we may rely on data exclusivity, or in some cases, method of use patents. The enforceability of these patents varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may not be allowed or enforceable in some territories where we may seek approval. We may not have the funds to continue patent prosecution or to defend all of our existing patents in our current patent estate and may selectively abandon patents or patent families worldwide or in certain territories.


Our success is also dependent upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, none of which is patentable. To help protect our rights, we require all employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements, which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of BioCryst and, where possible, require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. 

Competition
 
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Many companies, including biotechnology, chemical and pharmaceutical companies, are actively engaged in activities similar to ours, including research, development, and commercialization of drugs for the treatment of rare medical conditions. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more extensive commercial and manufacturing organizations than we do. In addition, many have considerable experience in preclinical testing, clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. In addition, there are also academic institutions, governmental agencies and other research organizations who conduct research in areas in which we are working. We expect to encounter significant competition for any of the pharmaceutical products we plan to develop. Companies that successfully complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commence commercial marketing and sales of their products may achieve a significant competitive advantage. 
 
Antivirals: The pharmaceutical market for products that prevent or treat influenza is very competitive. Key competitive factors for RAPIVAB (peramivir injection) include, among others, efficacy, ease of use, safety, price and cost-effectiveness, storage and handling requirements and reimbursement. A number of neuraminidase inhibitors are currently available in the U.S. and/or other counties, including Japan, for the prevention or treatment of influenza, including seasonal flu vaccines and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.’s (“Roche”) TAMIFLU® (oseltamivir), generic oseltamivir, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s (“GSK”) RELENZA® and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd.’s INAVIR®. In addition, FUJIFILM Corporation’s favipiravir, a polymerase inhibitor, is approved in Japan. Roche’s neuraminidase inhibitor is also approved for prophylaxis of influenza.
 

16
--


In addition to these companies with neuraminidase inhibitors, there are other companies working to develop additional antiviral drugs to be used against various strains of influenza. Currently, there are a number of other companies developing potential new influenza therapies. Various government entities throughout the world are offering incentives, grants and contracts to encourage additional investment into preventative and therapeutic agents against influenza, which may have the effect of further increasing the number of our competitors and/or providing advantages to certain competitors.


Galidesivir is a product candidate in our BSAV research program and is currently being developed under contracts with NIAID/HHS and BARDA/HHS. The objective of our BSAV program is to develop galidesivir as a broad-spectrum therapeutic for viruses that pose a threat to national health and security. The U.S. Government is investing in a number of programs intended to address gaps in its medical countermeasure plan. Therapeutic products with potentially promising data to treat Ebola include FUJIFILM Corporation’s favipiravir (polymerase inhibitor) and Mapp Biopharmaceutical, Inc.’s ZMapp (antibody-based). ZMapp has been used in Ebola patients. Gilead Sciences, Inc announced in October 2015 that it had provided the investigational compound, GS-5734, to two patients with Ebola for compassionate use.
 
HAE: HAE is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by painful, unpredictable, recurrent attacks of inflammation affecting the hands, feet, face, abdomen, urogenital tract, and the larynx. The inflammation can be disfiguring, debilitating, or in the case of laryngeal attacks, life-threatening. Prevalence for HAE is uncertain but is estimated to be approximately 1 case per 50,000 persons without known differences among ethnic groups and is caused by deficient (Type I) or dysfunctional (Type II) levels of C1-Inhibitor (“C1-INH”), a naturally occurring molecule that is known to inhibit kallikrein, bradykinin, and other serine proteases in the blood. If left untreated, HAE can result in a mortality rate as high as 40% primarily due to upper airway obstruction. There are a number of licensed therapies for HAE, including the following:

• | C1-INH therapy is available as an acute therapy (Berinert®) and as a prophylactic therapy (Haegarda® and Cinryze®). These therapies are available subcutaneously and intravenously and work by replacing the missing or malfunctioning C1-INH protein in patients. Recominant C1-INH (Ruconest®) is also available as an acute therapy. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• | Kallikrein Inhibition - Kalbitor® (ecallantide) is a specific recombinant plasma kallikrein inhibitor that halts the production of bradykinin and can be dosed subcutaneously in an inpatient setting. 
• | Bradykinin receptor antagonist - Firazyr® (icatibant) is a competitive antagonist of the bradykinin B2 receptor. Firazyr is approved for the treatment of acute attacks and is administered by subcutaneous administration. 
• | Other medications - Prophylactic administration of synthetic attenuated androgens (generically available as danazol or stanozolol) has been utilized to reduce the frequency or severity of attacks. However, long-term use of danazol or stanozolol may result in virilization and arterial hypertension. Six-month liver function tests, annual lipid profiles, and biennial hepatic ultrasound are recommended because these medications increase production of C1-INH in the liver.



In addition to BCX7353 there are a number of other HAE therapies in clinical development. These include SHP616, a prophylactic plasma derived C1-INH delivered by subcutaneous injection developed by Shire Plc (“Shire”), with positive top line Phase 3 pivotal data presented in September 2017; lanadelumab (SHP643, DX2930), a monoclonal antibody administered by subcutaneous injection for prophylactic treatment of HAE developed by Shire, which has completed Phase 3 trials and has been submitted to the FDA for review; Ruconest, developed by Pharming Group N.A. for routine prophylaxis of HAE, for which the FDA has accepted review of a Supplemental Biologics License Application (“sBLA”) with an anticipated action date of September 21, 2018; two oral kallikrein inhibitors being developed by Kalvista Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that have entered Phase 1 trials; and oral kallikrein inhibitors in preclinical development by Attune Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Verseon Corporation. CSL’s CSL312, an anti factor mAb (monoclonal antibody), completed Phase 1 trials in November 2017 and is expected to start Phase 2 trials in 2018 in HAE patients. Ionis’s IONISPKKrx, a RNA-targeted antisense drug to inhibit prekallikrein for prophylactic treatment of HAE, is currently in in Phase 1 trials with an anticipated completion date in June 2018. Adverum Biotechnologies, Inc.’s ADVM-053, an AAV (adeno-associated virus) expressing C1-esterase inhibitor, is expected to file an IND in the second half of 2018. Additionally, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is in early development of ARO-F12, an RNAi (RNA interference) in early development for the treatment of HAE and thromboembolic disorders. 


FOP: FOP is a rare, severely disabling condition characterized by the irregular formation of bone outside the normal skeleton, also known as heterotopic ossification (“HO”). HO can occur in muscles, tendons and soft tissue. FOP patients progressively become bound by this irregular ossification, with restricted movement and fused joints, resulting in deformities and premature mortality. There are currently no approved treatments for FOP.
 
Other FOP therapies in clinical development include Clementia Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s palovarotene, an oral, retinoic acid gamma receptor agonist, currently in Phase 3 trials (initiated December 2017); Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s REGN2477, an i.v. anti-activin antibody in Phase 2 trials (initiated November 2017); and several companies with programs in pre-clinical development, including Blueprint Medicines Corporation, with its oral ALK2 kinase inhibitor, La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company, with three compounds (two ALK2 inhibitors and LJPC-6417, a bone morphogenetic protein receptor type I antagonist), and Daiichi-Sankyo Co., Ltd, which is collaborating with Saitama Medical University on an ALK2 inhibitor funded by Japan Agency for Medical Research.



17
--


In order to compete successfully in these and other therapeutic areas, we must develop proprietary positions in patented drugs for therapeutic markets that have not been satisfactorily addressed by conventional research strategies and, in the process, expand our expertise in structure-based drug design. Our product candidates, even if successfully tested and developed, may not be adopted by physicians over other products and may not offer economically feasible alternatives to other therapies.
 
Research and Development
 
We initiated our research and development activities in 1986. We have assembled a scientific research staff with expertise in a broad base of advanced research technologies including protein biochemistry, X-ray crystallography, chemistry and pharmacology. Our research facilities, located in Birmingham, Alabama, include protein biochemistry and organic synthesis laboratories, testing facilities, X-ray crystallography, computer and graphics equipment and facilities to make product candidates on a small scale for early stage clinical trials. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our research and development expenses were $67.0 million, $61.0 million, and $72.8 million respectively.
Compliance
 
We conduct our business in an ethical, fair, honest and lawful manner. We act responsibly, respectfully and with integrity in our relationships with patients, health care professionals, collaborators, governments, regulatory entities, stockholders, suppliers and vendors.
 
In order to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Vice President of Human Resources oversee compliance training, education, auditing and monitoring; enforce disciplinary guidelines for any infractions of our corporate polices; implement new policies and procedures; respond to any detected issues; and undertake corrective action procedures. Our controls address compliance with laws and regulations that govern public pharmaceutical companies including, but not limited to, the following: federal and state law, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; NASDAQ listing requirements; the regulations of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”); the FDA; and the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Our standard operating procedures are designed to provide a framework for corporate governance in accordance with ethical standards and best legal practices.
 
Government Regulation
 
The FDA regulates the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in the U.S., and our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulations prior to commercialization. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In foreign countries, our products are also subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. These government regulations will be a significant factor in the production and marketing of any pharmaceutical products that we develop. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process may subject us to sanctions, including:

• | delays; 
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• | warning letters; 
• | fines; 
• | product recalls or seizures; 
• | injunctions; 
• | penalties; 
• | refusal of the FDA to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications;
• | total or partial suspension of production; 
• | civil penalties; 
• | withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and 
• | criminal prosecutions. 


18
--


The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we or our partners must demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. The approval process takes many years, substantial expenses may be incurred and significant time may be devoted to clinical development.
 
Before testing potential product candidates in humans, we carry out laboratory and animal studies to determine safety and biological activity. After completing preclinical trials, we must file an IND, including a proposal to begin clinical trials, with the FDA. Thirty days after filing an IND, a Phase 1 human clinical trial can start, unless the FDA places a hold on the trial.
 
Clinical trials to support a NDA are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap.
 
Phase 1—During Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy volunteers, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics and pharmacological actions and safety, including side effects associated with increasing doses.
 
Phase 2—Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to: (1) assess the efficacy of the drug in specific, targeted indications; (2) assess dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and (3) identify possible adverse effects and safety risks.
 
Phase 3 (pivotal)—If a compound is found to be potentially effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 clinical trials, also called pivotal studies, major studies or advanced clinical trials, are undertaken to further demonstrate clinical efficacy and to further test for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. In general, the FDA requires that at least two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials be conducted.
 
Initiation and completion of the clinical trial phases are dependent on several factors including things that are beyond our control. For example, the clinical trials cannot begin at a particular site until that site receives approval from its Institutional Review Board (“IRB”), which reviews the protocol and related documents. This process can take from several weeks to several months. In addition, clinical trials are dependent on patient enrollment, but the rate at which patients enroll in the study depends on:
 

• | willingness of investigators to participate in a study; 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• | ability of clinical sites to obtain approval from their IRB; 
• | the availability of the required number of eligible subjects to be enrolled in a given trial;
• | the availability of existing or other experimental drugs for the disease we intend to treat; 
• | the willingness of patients to participate; and 
• | the patients meeting the eligibility criteria. 

 
Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased expense and longer development timelines.
 
After successful completion of the required clinical testing, generally an NDA is submitted. Upon receipt of the NDA, the FDA will review the application for completeness. Within 60 days, the FDA will determine if the application is sufficiently complete to warrant full review and will consider the application “filed” at that time. Also upon receipt of the application, the FDA will assign a review priority to the application. Priority review applications are usually reviewed within 6 months after the NDA is “filed”; standard review applications are usually reviewed within 10 months after the NDA is “filed”. The FDA will usually refer NDAs for new molecular entities to an appropriate advisory committee for review and evaluation in regards to providing a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound to follow the recommendation of an advisory committee.


Following the review of the application, which may include requests for additional information from the sponsor and results from inspections of manufacturing and clinical sites, the FDA will issue an “action letter” on the application. The action letter will either be an “approval letter,” in which case the product may be lawfully marketed in the United States, or a “complete response letter.” A complete response letter will state that the FDA cannot approve the NDA in its present form and, usually, will describe all of the specific deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the application. The complete response letter, when possible, will include the FDA’s recommended actions to place the application in a condition for approval. Deficiencies can be minor (e.g., labeling changes) or major (e.g., requiring additional clinical trials). A complete response letter may also be issued before the FDA conducts the required facility inspection and/or reviews labeling, leaving the possibility that additional deficiencies in the original NDA could be subsequently cited. An applicant receiving a complete response letter is permitted to resubmit the NDA addressing the identified deficiencies (in which case a new two or six-month review cycle will begin), or withdraw the NDA. The FDA may consider a failure to take action within one year of a complete response letter to be a request to withdraw, unless the applicant has requested an extension of time in which to resubmit. If the FDA approves an NDA, the marketing of the product will be limited to the particular disease states and conditions of use that are described in the product label.
 

19
--


We and all of our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations during clinical development and to ensure that the product can be consistently manufactured to meet the specifications submitted in an NDA. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to product quality as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our products. Based on an inspection, the FDA determines whether manufacturing facilities are in compliance with applicable regulations. Manufacturing facilities in non-United States countries that are utilized to manufacture drugs for distribution into the United States are also subject to inspection by the FDA. Additionally, failure to comply with local regulatory requirements could affect production and availability of product in relevant markets.
 
Human Resources
 
As of January 31, 2018, we had approximately 85 employees, of whom approximately 60 were engaged in the research and development function of our operations. Our research and development staff, approximately 25 of whom hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees, have diversified experience in biochemistry, pharmacology, X-ray crystallography, synthetic organic chemistry, computational chemistry, medicinal chemistry, clinical development and regulatory affairs.
 
Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Employees are required to execute confidentiality and assignment of intellectual property agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.
 
Available Information
 
Our website address is www.biocryst.com. We make available, free of charge, at our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available at our website copies of our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, corporate governance and nominating committee charter and our code of business conduct, which applies to all our employees as well as the members of our Board of Directors. Any amendment to, or waiver from, our code of business conduct will be posted on our website.
Financial Information
 
For information related to our revenues, profits, net loss and total assets, in addition to other financial information, please refer to the Financial Statements and Notes to Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report. Financial information about revenues derived from foreign countries is included in Note 1 to the Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report.
