Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

Item 1. Business.
GENERAL
 
Table Trac, Inc. (the “Company” or “Table Trac”) is a Nevada corporation, formed on June 27, 1995, with principal offices in Minnetonka, Minnesota.
 
The Company has developed and patented (U.S. patent # 5,957,776) a proprietary information and management system (called our “Table Trac” system) that automates and monitors the operations of casino table game operations. In addition to its table games management system, Table Trac has been adding functionality to related casino system modules for guest rewards and loyalty club, marketing analysis, guest service, promotions, administration / management, vault / cage management and audit / accounting tasks. Aggregated together, all of these modules have become the “Casino Trac” product, a full-featured Casino Management System (CMS) offering what we believe to be a powerful combination of value, efficiency and reliability for casinos seeking to add or upgrade their casino systems.
 
The Company sells systems and technical support to casinos. The open architecture of the Table Trac system is designed to provide operators with a scalable and flexible system that can interconnect and operate with most third-party software or hardware. Key products and services forming a part of the Table Trac system include modules designed to drive player tracking programs and kiosk promotions, as well as vault and cage controls. The company’s systems meet the strictest auditing, accounting and regulatory requirements. The Company has developed a patented, real-time system that automates and monitors the operations of casino gaming tables.
 
The Company continues to increase its market share by expanding its product offerings to include new system features and ancillary products.
 
TABLE TRAC INSTALLATIONS
 
Table Trac currently has casino management systems, table games management systems and ancillary products installed with on-going support and maintenance contracts at 86 casino operators in over 130 casinos worldwide in the U.S., Caribbean, Central and South America.
AVAILABILITY OF TABLE TRAC
 
Table Trac systems are available for purchase from the Company by any legal gambling casino in the U.S. and legal casinos operating outside the U.S. Table Trac’s systems are purchased, installed and sold with a monthly license and maintenance contract whereby Table Trac performs required maintenance on its systems to assure trouble-free operations.
MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES
 
The Company designs and manufactures its own table game interface units and slot machine gaming machine interface boards using the services of third-party electronics assembly firms. The Company has relationships with a host of third-party electronic and gaming equipment manufacturers that can be readily available for hire, as needed.
TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS
 
The Company filed for its provisional patent application in August 1995, and filed for its final application in August 1996. This application was approved and issued on September 28, 2000, as patent number 5,957,776.
 
The Company has a registered trademark (“TABLE TRAC”), which was originally issued on September 7, 2000.
 



EMPLOYEES
 
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had 22 full-time equivalents with an employee headcount of 22, and engaged the services of one contract specialist during the course of the year.
GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
 
The gaming and lottery industries are generally subject to extensive and evolving regulation that customarily includes some form of licensing or regulatory screening of suppliers, manufacturers and distributors and their applicable affiliates, their major shareholders, officers, directors and key employees. In addition, certain of our gaming products and technologies must be certified or approved in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. Regulators review many facets of an applicant or holder of a license, including its financial stability, integrity and business experience. Any failure to receive a license or the loss of a license that we currently hold could have a material adverse effect on us or on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.
 
While we believe that we are in compliance with all material gaming and lottery laws and regulatory requirements applicable to us, we cannot assure that our activities or the activities of our customers will not become the subject of any regulatory or law enforcement proceeding or that any such proceeding would not have a material adverse impact on us or our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
The Company signed thirteen new customer contracts in 2017 and expanded the Company’s presence in California, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Washington and Texas and entered new territories in Maryland and Nevada. At the end of 2017, the Company had casino management systems, table games management systems and ancillary products installed with on-going support and maintenance contracts with 86 casino operators in over 130 casinos worldwide.
 
At the Company’s annual shareholder meeting in October 2017, the Company’s shareholders re-elected Steven A. Browne, Louis Fornetti, and Gary Loebig as its independent board members; along with two of the Company’s current or former officers, Chad Hoehne, Table Trac’s, President, Chief Technical Officer and founder, and now its Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Hinchley, the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The board re-elected Mr. Browne as Chairman of the Board, while Mr. Fornetti and Mr. Loebig were re-elected to serve as chairmen of the audit and compensation committees, respectively.
 
On November 16, 2017, the Nevada Gaming Commission voted to reject Brian Hinchley’s individual application for licensure as Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and a director of the Company. Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statute 463.220, the rejection of an application is not a determination of suitability. Mr. Hinchley’s application was not denied by the Nevada Gaming Commission and he was permitted to remain an employee of the Company and may re-apply for licensure at any time in Nevada. Further, this vote had no effect on the Company’s licensure with the State of Nevada, which was originally obtained on August 25, 2016.
 
As a result, on November 17, 2017, Mr. Hinchley resigned his positions as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and stepped down from the Company’s Board of Directors. On November 20, 2017, the Company appointed Chad Hoehne, to serve as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer. On January 8, 2018, the Board of Directors appointed Randy W. Gilbert as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer.
 
During 2017, the Company participated in several key industry trade shows and conferences, including the ICE Gaming Show, the Caribbean Gaming Show, the National Indian Gaming Association Trade Show and Conference, the Gaming Technology Summit, the Midwest Gaming Conference, the Oklahoma Indian Gaming Association Trade Show and Conference, Raving’s Casino Marketing Conference and Table Games Conference, and Global Gaming Expo (G2E), the industry’s premier event. The Company also holds licenses in Colorado and Nevada, which will allow the Company to pursue sales in these territories.
 

2
-

