Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | Business

Company Overview
Calix, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Calix,” “we,” “our” or “us”) was incorporated in August 1999 and is a Delaware corporation. Calix is the leading global provider of cloud and software platforms, systems and services required to deliver the unified access network and smart premises of tomorrow. Our mission is to connect everyone and everything. Calix platforms empower our customers to build new business models, rapidly deploy new services and make the promise of the smart home and business a reality. Innovative CSPs rely on Calix platforms to help them master and monetize the complex infrastructure between their subscribers and the cloud. Our platforms and services help our customers build next generation networks by embracing a DevOps operating model, optimizing the subscriber experience by leveraging big data analytics and turning the complexity of the smart home and business into new revenue streams.
We are the pioneer in software defined access, or SDA, and our portfolio of solutions is designed to help CSPs meet emerging threats from web-scale players and reinvent how they serve their device-enabled subscribers. Our platforms enable our customers to capitalize on the opportunity that is being generated by the Internet of Things, or IoT, augmented and virtual reality applications and autonomous technologies. Our customers who are embracing our strategic platforms recognize that providing a sensational subscriber experience via an infrastructure that is Always On, can be enhanced at a DevOps pace and is intelligent enough to run itself enables them to compete in the future. We also provide cloud analytics designed to help service providers create and market new offerings that monetize their investments in the network. Finally, we strive to put our customers and their brands first to ensure that they will always have a central place in their subscribers’ lives. Our solution strategy is intended to help our customers build and re-enforce their brand presence within their subscribers’ premises. We believe this must be an element of their strategy for sustaining and growing their businesses.
Our current customers include CSPs of almost every size and type. Our solutions may be used by any entity providing communications services to a subscriber. This universe includes local and competitive exchange carriers, cable operators, wireless internet service providers, or wireless ISPs, over builders such as municipalities and electric cooperatives, hospitality providers and others globally. We market and sell our portfolio to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as in partnership with a number of resellers. We have enabled over 1,400 customers to deploy gigabit passive optical network, or GPON, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks.
We have a single reportable operating segment. Additional information about geographic areas required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13, “Segment Information” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Industry Background and Trends
CSPs compete in a rapidly changing market to deliver a range of services to their residential and business subscribers. Subscribers now purchase an array of services from providers, starting with basic voice and data through advanced broadband services such as high-speed Internet, Internet protocol television, or IPTV, mobile broadband, high-definition and ultra high-definition video, and over-the-top video and online gaming from a variety of CSPs. Consumers are also rapidly adding devices that require high bandwidth, low latency services such as virtual and augmented reality as well as IoT devices that bring significant complexity to the premises network. It is likely that adoption of autonomous technologies such as self-driving cars will dramatically increase demand and complexity.
The rapid growth in new technologies is generating increased network traffic and putting pressure on CSPs to cost effectively upgrade and enhance their networks to meet demand. For example, Cisco Systems, Inc. estimates that global Internet protocol, or IP, traffic will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 24% per year from 2016 to reach approximately 278 exabytes per month in 2021. At the same time, the proliferation of new technologies creates a tremendous opportunity for CSPs to offer new services and revenue streams by mastering the complexity of the smart home and business for their subscribers.
The Emergence of Web-Scale Players as a Competitive Force
The level of competition among CSPs – wireline and wireless service providers, cable multiple system operators, or cable MSOs, and other CSPs – has increased over the last decade as traditional service boundaries have fallen. All providers are now competing for the same residential and business subscribers using similar types of IP-based services. The explosion of new technologies in the subscriber premises creates significant new opportunities for all CSPs. Technology innovators of all types and sizes are moving aggressively to seize that opportunity. Perhaps the most significant recent change in the competitive dynamic across the communications space is the aggressive entrance of web-scale players into subscribers’ homes and 
4

businesses. These entrants, such as Google and Amazon, are extending their current platforms (e.g., data driven search, e-commerce) into the subscriber premises with new devices and services that are helping to reshape the home environment. Their use of data enables them to rapidly deploy new services and command a central place in the subscriber’s daily life. The level of insight that they generate by mining user data, coupled with their DevOps business model, positions them to offer and deploy services to subscribers at pace that a traditional CSP model cannot match.
To address this challenge and establish control of the device-enabled subscriber, CSPs must respond by leveraging analytical tools that utilize network data and subscriber behavioral data to tailor services that meet the individual subscribers’ needs. These services include high-bandwidth packages, managed Wi-Fi, whole home Wi-Fi and smart home services. We believe these new services represent the CSPs’ greatest opportunity to create new revenue streams and higher average revenue per user, or ARPU, while reducing churn. CSPs must also mine network and subscriber data to streamline and automate subscriber facing functions such as customer service. These data-driven approaches can significantly reduce service costs, improve profitability and support investment in new services and technologies. Increasingly, companies in the communications space will embrace strategies that apply machine learning and artificial intelligence technologies that promise to dramatically improve the subscriber experience, build subscriber intimacy and loyalty while increasing ARPU. By leveraging data to build a tighter bond with their subscribers and deliver high-value services, CSPs can more effectively meet the challenge presented by web-scale players.
The Rise of Smart Premises
In many ways 2017 was a significant inflection point for the smart home market. The Amazon Echo was the top selling item on the entire Amazon marketplace – reaching 22 million units sold and selling-out during the year-end holiday season. IoT, virtual reality and other connected devices have become mainstream for many consumers and they are increasingly prevalent on subscriber premises. Parks and Associates estimates that the proliferation of connected home devices has led to an average of 9.1 connected devices per U.S. broadband home and projects annual sales of all connected home devices reaching 442 million units by 2020. McKinsey and Company, Incorporated estimates that globally the total IoT market will grow at a 32.6% compounded annual growth rate through 2020. These connected devices are already creating complexity and management challenges for the CSPs who are often contacted by their subscribers when performance issues arise. Increasingly, subscribers view any device that is connected to home network as the purview and responsibility of their CSP. As the number and type of devices continues to expand, CSPs must develop strategies and adopt technologies that help them manage the complexity.
To improve performance and coverage throughout their homes, many subscribers are purchasing Wi-Fi routers and gateways via consumer channels and introducing them into the home network. These devices compound management challenges for CSPs as the subscribers generally contact their CSP when issues arise with the Wi-Fi performance. Since these consumer devices do not provide carrier class management capabilities that enable remote diagnostics, management and trouble-shooting, performance issues can create a cost burden for the service provider and satisfaction issues for the subscriber.
Recognizing that many subscribers see the CSP as the logical source of insights and services that enable the smart home and business, innovative CSPs are developing strategies and business models that embrace these new technologies via carrier class premises systems. Over the last year, several of the largest and most innovative CSPs have announced strategies that incorporate the latest technologies such as voice interaction and IoT connectivity. By leveraging cloud management technologies and developing a proactive strategy for smart device connectivity, voice interaction, security and premises system instrumentation, CSPs can position themselves as the critical enabler of the smart home and business. Winners will embrace software platforms that enable all of these capabilities and premises systems that provide a foundation for turning the burden of the smart home into new services and revenue streams.
The Shift to a DevOps Business Model
Access networks, traditionally known as the local loop or last mile, directly and physically connect the residential or business subscriber to the CSP’s data center, central office or similar facilities and create the onramp to the Internet. The access network is critical for service delivery as it governs the bandwidth capacity, service quality available to subscribers and ultimately the services and experience CSPs can provide to subscribers. Providing differentiated, high-quality, high-speed connectivity has become increasingly critical for CSPs to retain and expand their subscriber base and launch new revenue-generating services. To meet the demands of device-enabled subscribers, CSPs are starting to deploy access technologies that are software defined and leverage next generation Passive Optical Network, or PON, architectures such as NG-PON2, XGS-PON and 10G EPON. In doing so they will address many of limitations of legacy access systems:

• | Limited capacity of outdated access architectures – Network architectures have physical limitations in their ability to scale bandwidth, avoid latency issues and deliver the advanced broadband services subscribers demand today and are expected to increasingly demand in the future.

5


• | Inflexible networks that constrain subscriber offerings – Networks were designed to support a narrow range of services, and as a result, they limit the ability of CSPs to deploy the advanced broadband services increasingly demanded by their subscribers.


• | Expensive to deploy and operate – With a wide variety of equipment installed, networks require significant downtime and labor for maintenance and upgrades, thereby placing a significant and recurring capital and operating expense burden on CSPs.


• | Back-office systems slow deployment of new services – Traditional methods for operationalizing new products and services often require significant testing and lengthy back-office integration activities. This often places CSPs at a competitive disadvantage relative to emerging service providers that are leveraging agile management practices.

By replacing traditional hardware functions with software defined networking, or SDN, CSPs can overcome these operational challenges and bring new products and services to market faster. Many CSPs are embracing SDN and SDA to help accelerate innovation, deploy automation, bring agility to their network and significantly reduce service disruptions. By embracing standards-based, modular software platforms that abstract software functions from hardware, CSPs can free themselves from a dependence on specific hardware technologies and upgrade their access network to enable a DevOps business model. The winning service providers of the future will embrace SDA platforms and transform their access networks into a competitive weapon. Ultimately, this new model will enable CSPs to manage a complete range of access systems across nearly every deployment scenario (e.g., central office, head-end, cabinet, mounted on a pole) in a consistent manner. With this shift they will introduce services at a pace that can then match the speed of the web-scale players.
The imperative to develop lean operating models
CSPs face a dual challenge in the coming years – mounting competitive pressure and the requirement to increase their investments in technologies that can deliver the new services that their subscribers will demand. Most will need to make shifts in their operating models to thrive in the coming decade. They must implement a lean operating model that reduces the cost to run the business and deliver services to subscribers at an accelerated pace and at a significantly lowered cost. The adoption of new technologies that provide automation and intelligence, such as SDA, will help service providers adopt agile operating models and reduce the burden of network and back-office operations. 
The role of governments in supporting technology investment
As CSPs face increasing competitive pressure, they must accelerate their investments to upgrade their access networks and deploy new subscriber facing technologies. Governments around the world recognize the importance of expanding broadband networks and delivering advanced broadband services to more people and businesses. As a result, many governments have established stimulus programs or other incentives for broadband investment.
In the United States, programs like the Connect America Fund, or CAF, and E-Rate provide billions of dollars each year to CSPs in the form of capital investment incentives, grants and loans to encourage broadband network investment in unserved or underserved communities and schools. For example, in 2015, the CAF program was authorized to distribute $1.5 billion per year through 2020 to offset the costs of installing and operating CSP operated broadband and voice networks for Tier 1 and Tier 2 service providers in the United States. In 2016, this program was extended to the Tier 3 service providers to distribute $2.0 billion annually over the next ten years to offset the costs of installing and operating CSP operated broadband and voice networks. In addition, the E-Rate program was authorized to offer $1.5 billion in grants to build gigabit capable network connections to schools. The E-Rate program targeted at networks is funded at its current level indefinitely. The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission in 2016 created a fund targeted at increasing broadband coverage and speeds that made available up to $750 million available over the next five years, and the European Commission is pursuing similar goals via its Connecting Europe Facility and other programs.
With the increasing importance of broadband connectivity and the evolution of the smart home and business market, we expect this investment focus to continue and potentially increase. World-class connectivity and service are becoming essential capabilities for individuals, as well as businesses and nations who strive to remain economically competitive in an increasingly global and connected market place.
Strategy Overview
We believe that many CSPs can and will evolve to providing the most relevant services and experience to their subscribers. Today, many CSPs command a privileged and strategic position in their subscribers’ premises. They provide a service that is becoming a necessity for many subscribers. With significant new technologies coming into the marketplace, the opportunities to generate new revenue streams are manifold. However, the journey from connectivity provider to essential provider of high bandwidth connectivity and services to the smart home and business will require significant transformation for most CSPs. Our 
6

strategy is to position Calix as the essential provider of platforms and services that enable this transformation. The principal elements of our strategy are:
Increase Focus on Strategic Platforms – Our strategy centers on our three strategic platforms – Calix Cloud, EXOS (Experience eXtensible Operating System) and AXOS (Access eXtensible Operating System).

• | Calix Cloud is a cloud analytics platform that leverages network data and subscriber behavioral data to deliver analytics and intelligence to communications professionals via role specific dashboards. Calix Cloud provides the subscriber analytics to deliver the targeted services and experiences to build customer intimacy and loyalty.


• | EXOS is a carrier class premises operating system that supports residential, business and mobile subscribers. EXOS, coupled with our market leading GigaFamily premises systems, provides a unique platform for mastering and monetizing the complexity of the smart home and business.


• | AXOS is an operating system for access networks that allows a service provider to deliver all services on a single, elastic, converged access network that is always on. AXOS, coupled with our eSeries systems, provides a unique platform for the software defined access network that enables CSPs to transform their business processes and deliver new services at DevOps speed.

Extend Portfolio of Calix Services – Our services team assists CSPs define their transformation strategy, build new skills, implement new technologies and deploy new subscriber services. Calix Services addresses a CSP’s entire network and service delivery lifecycle.
Engage Directly with Customers – Calix continues to invest in our direct sales capabilities to ensure that we engage deeply with our customers to help them understand the differentiable value that our platforms deliver. As an innovator and a market leader, it is important that our sales and solution engineering resources continually drive the adoption of our strategic platforms. Our direct model is complemented outside of North America with a selective program for Calix Channel Partners who have established local market expertise and demonstrated the ability to generate new market opportunities and support sales of cutting-edge technologies.
Expand Customer Footprint Across Our Expanded Total Addressable Market – Our diverse and growing customer footprint is a critical source of our growth as we expand our portfolio and sell additional platforms to both new and existing customers. Our platforms have dramatically expanded our total addressable market, and as such we intend to build on our recent momentum in penetrating service provider segments where our current share is relatively low (e.g., cable MSO, Tier 1 telecommunications providers and international markets) and continue to engage emerging providers who are creating entirely new customer segments (e.g., utilities and hospitality).
Pursue Strategic Relationships – We expect to continue to pursue strategic technology and distribution relationships, alliances and acquisitions that help us align us with CSPs’ strategic priorities. We continue to invest to assure interoperability across the ecosystems that support our customers’ most critical business processes through our Calix Compatible Program. This program has dozens of technology members and it is designed to enable our customers to rapidly deploy qualified solutions globally.
Portfolio Overview
By embracing open, modular, standards-based strategies, we provide intelligence and flexibility across a CSP’s entire network – from their data centers to their subscribers’ connected devices. Calix platforms are designed to provide our customers the agility that they need to offer the managed services that their subscribers demand. While we continue to support our non-AXOS and non-EXOS systems and our traditional cloud and software products, we are focused on driving the evolution and market penetration of our strategic platforms and services.
The Calix portfolio allows for a broad range of subscriber services to be provisioned and delivered over a single unified network. These systems can deliver voice and data services, advanced broadband services, mobile broadband, as well as high-definition video and online gaming. Our premises systems allow CSPs to master the complexity of the smart home and business and offer new services to their device enabled subscribers. All of these platforms and systems can be monitored, analyzed, managed and supported by Calix Cloud.
7

Representation of how Calix platforms and services support a CSP’s entire network:
Calix Cloud
Calix Cloud is an analytics platform that leverages network data and subscriber behavioral data to deliver intelligence to communications professionals via role specific dashboards. Calix Cloud provides customer support personnel with troubleshooting dashboards and tailored analytics that reduce call volumes, reduce call times and lower “truck rolls”. Calix Cloud provides marketing personnel with segmentation dashboards and tailored analytics that reduce churn, increase ARPU and improve marketing return on investment. Calix Cloud transforms insights into action for CSPs, enabling them to:

• | Analyze: Calix Cloud allows CSPs a deeper understanding of their subscribers and their satisfaction. As a result, CSPs can directly address churn risk and improve marketing campaigns.


• | Engage: Calix Cloud provides CSPs real-time insights into network issues, allowing CSPs to be responsive in resolving issues and offering solutions.


• | Grow: Calix Cloud analytics combine multiple information sources to build a full picture of subscribers, which can enable higher marketing success rates.

Calix Cloud is composed of two subscription-based offerings that complement each other to provide a powerful platform that CSP employees utilize within their daily work flows to increase the effectiveness of their marketing campaigns, address support issues and improve the subscriber experience.
Representation that summarizes the main capabilities of Calix Cloud:
8

Calix Support Cloud (CSC) – Recent Calix studies demonstrate that a large portion of support calls result from Wi-Fi performance issues. Since Wi-Fi related support calls take approximately three-times as long to complete as the average support call, reducing these calls can significantly improve operational efficiency. CSC enables more informed and efficient conversations between CSP customer service representatives and their subscribers. Support personnel utilize troubleshooting dashboards and tailored analytics that are built directly into their work flows to quickly identify issues with network, devices and Wi-Fi performance. Once the issues are identified, many can be resolved via CSC with a simple click of a button. Recent enhancements to CSC include automation capabilities that can fix many common issues without any manual intervention. We intend to incorporate more advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities into CSC to help CSPs optimize their support processes and improve subscriber experiences.
Calix Marketing Cloud (CMC) – CMC enables marketers to move away from a one size fits all approach to marketing and deliver personalized campaigns. CMC provides insights regarding subscriber behavior including website visits, social channel engagement, device usage and bandwidth consumption. CMC also helps CSPs identify subscribers who are experiencing service issues and exhibiting behaviors that correlate with higher churn rates (e.g., running speed tests). By delivering these insights through intuitive segmentation dashboards and tailored analytics, CMC helps CSPs deliver the right message, at the optimal time, via the optimal channel. CMC enables CSPs to adopt data-driven strategies to effectively compete with web-scale players.
Calix Cloud software is hosted in a cloud data center and Calix offers an array of support and service offerings that are designed to ensure rapid deployment and easy adoption.
EXOS
EXOS is a carrier class premises operating system introduced in the fall of 2017 that supports residential, business and mobile subscribers. EXOS is the first carrier class premises operating system designed to help CSPs deliver a managed experience for the smart home and business. EXOS can help CSPs address the unique needs of every subscriber by helping them:

• | Connect: Leverage the ecosystems, applications, cloud services and devices that deliver services to subscribers.


• | Manage: Control the total subscriber experience while adapting to new technologies that are introduced into the home or business network.


• | Secure: Provide software-enabled security with the ability to integrate with a global ecosystem of partners.


• | Analyze: Improve the delivery of services by converting subscriber, device and network data into actionable insight.

Representation that summarizes the main capabilities of EXOS:
Approximately 50% of smart home device owners experience problems when setting up their devices. These challenges create opportunities for service providers who can eliminate these issues and remove the management burden from the subscriber. EXOS is designed to eliminate subscribers’ smart device challenges and support a broad array of smart home technologies including IoT, virtual reality and home automation systems. EXOS incorporates a software model that is standards-based and fully abstracted from the hardware, providing CSPs with the flexibility to offer services on the premises system of their choice. This flexibility also allows CSPs to offer managed smart home and business services such as security and home automation. We expect to implement EXOS in the next generation of GigaFamily smart premises systems that will launch in 2018. The EXOS-powered GigaFamily will target both home and small-to-medium sized business use cases. 
9

Representation of the next generation EXOS-powered GigaFamily:
While EXOS powered systems represent a significant inflexion point for the Calix premises portfolio, our current GigaFamily systems continue to offer CSPs a unique value proposition. As a carrier class system, the GigaCenter supports smart channel selection and dynamic frequency selection. The GigaCenter also supports interoperability with IPTV set top boxes and Wi-Fi analytics. When deployed in conjunction with the Calix Cloud, the GigaCenter provides the complete set of capabilities required for a fully managed Wi-Fi offering to deliver optimized services to subscribers.
With the recent introduction of the 804Mesh system to the GigaFamily, CSPs can now also offer a whole-home Wi-Fi service to their subscribers that is carrier class. When paired with the 804Mesh systems, the GigaCenter can extend Wi-Fi coverage to distant corners of the subscriber premises, enabling the highest quality connection throughout an entire home or small business network.
Representation of the Calix GigaCenter and 804Mesh satellite:
AXOS
AXOS is a software platform built for the specific needs of the access network. The AXOS platform is an architecture built to leverage the best of data center software design and network virtualization across the challenging and variable environment of the access network. With an always-on architecture and consistent provisioning services, a CSP can leverage AXOS to deliver all services on a single, elastic, converged access network that is always on. By supporting all existing and next generation PON architectures (anyPON), any silicon chipset (anyPHY) and any CSP operating model (anySDN), AXOS provides unmatched flexibility to our customers.
10

Representation that summarizes the main capabilities of AXOS:
We believe AXOS offers a revolutionary way for CSPs to operate their access network and accelerate their business transformation. AXOS achieves this through containerized software components that operate on top of a unique hardware abstraction layer that preserves software independence from the underlying hardware. This architecture simplifies upgrades to non-events, supports stateful, self-healing operation and facilitates virtualization of processes and services. All components and operational functions within AXOS use standard NETCONF protocol and YANG data models that enable AXOS-powered systems to fit into any open SDN orchestration and control framework. Open, published APIs also allow customers to directly program unique network applications and services.
With AXOS, CSPs can collapse and automate networks functions such a subscriber management and routing to streamline deployment of services and simplify operations. This functionality is supported via software modules including AXOS RPm (Routing Protocol module), AXOS SMm (Subscriber Management module) and connectors such as SMx (Service Management Connector), AXOS DPx (virtualized DOCSIS connector), AXOS OFx (OpenFlow connector) and AXOS Sandbox – an SDA virtual environment for system design and testing. The AXOS platform removes the complexity of network deployments by reducing the need for complex and costly integrated hardware and software that is pieced together via middleware. AXOS offers CSPs a path to the intelligent, unified access network that can accelerate time-to revenue, increase service velocity, eliminate service disruptions and reduce total cost of ownership.
AXOS is currently implemented in our E-series family of modular, non-blocking systems including the E9-2, E7-2, E3-2, E3-16F, E5-16F and E5 business systems. By offering AXOS on the entire eSeries family of systems, Calix offers our customers both small and large form factors that can be deployed in a variety of deployment scenario. The Calix Access system portfolio is designed for high availability and purpose-built for the demands of access network deployments. Our access systems are built and tested to meet or exceed network equipment-building system standards, which are a set of safety, spatial and environmental design guidelines for communications equipment. Our products are highly compatible and designed to be easily integrated into the existing operational and management infrastructure of CSP access networks.
Representation of the AXOS E-Series systems portfolio and where they are typically placed in the CSP network:
11

Traditional Products
Calix continues to support and sell our portfolio of non-AXOS and non-EXOS systems and traditional software and Compass Cloud products that are widely deployed in customer networks. For many CSPs, the process of operationalizing new systems and transitioning to new products can be lengthy. We expect that these products will continue to be utilized in our customers’ networks for many years. These products include:

• | Compass Cloud – Consists of Flow Analyze Plus (a tool that provides an in-depth view of the traffic in CSP networks on a real-time basis) and Consumer Connect Plus (a tool that enables service providers to remotely activate new broadband devices and manage home networks, creating new revenue sources, improved customer satisfaction and reduced service delivery costs) and Service Verify (a tool that gives service providers the tools to comprehensively validate quality of service commitments for their business subscribers).


• | Non-AXOS E-Series Access Systems and Nodes: A small subset of our E-Series access systems and access nodes that are designed to support an array of advanced IP-based service and run our EXA operating system. These systems are not supported by AXOS.


• | Calix C-Series Multiservice Access Systems: Designed to support a wide array of basic voice and data services offered by CSPs while also supporting advanced, high-speed, packet-based services such as Gigabit Ethernet, GPON, digital subscriber line, or DSL, (including very high-speed DSL 2, or VDSL2) and advanced applications.


• | Calix B-Series Access Nodes – Consist of chassis-based nodes that are designed to support an array of advanced IP-based services offered by CSPs, including Ethernet transport and aggregation, as well as voice, data and video services over both fiber- and copper-based network architectures.


• | P-Series Optical Network Terminals and Residential Gateways: A broad range of non-EXOS customer premises solutions, including optical network terminals, or ONTs, and residential gateways for residential and business use in conjunction with our E-Series, C-Series and B-Series systems.

Calix Services
Calix Services assists CSPs define their strategy, implement new services and manage their networks. CSPs choose Calix platforms because of their ability to simplify network management and support an agile service delivery model, and Calix Services spans the entirety of the network and service delivery lifecycle. Our expertise, developed over many years of building cutting-edge software platforms and providing critical services to our customers, positions us to be the vendor of choice. Today, the Calix Services team delivers services to CSPs of every size and every type. We intend to expand our portfolio of service offerings to ensure that our customers realize the full potential of our platforms.

• | Calix Professional Services utilizes defined service packages to accelerate network design and deployment, optimize performance and scalability and apply field-proven best practices, processes and tools. Use Cases for Calix Professional Services includes the collapse of multiple network silos into a single software defined access architecture, the seamless migration to next-generation PON architectures, the deployment of managed whole home Wi-Fi services and facilitated OSS/BSS integration services.


• | Calix Support and Managed Services: These offerings optimize CSP end-to-end processes, from operations to technology deployment to service lifecycle management. On our new platform-based products, Calix offers three tiers of support services that focus on software updates, the agility of operational workflows, service uptime and customer experience. Calix support tiers are designed to provide optimal support to our customers who are adopting our strategic platforms – Calix Cloud, EXOS and AXOS. On our traditional systems and cloud products, we continue to offer Calix Advantage support. Calix Managed Services focus on transitioning CSPs from reactive break-fix problem solving to a proactive analytics-driven approach. Calix technical and managed support options include technical support, remote monitoring and managed services.


• | Calix Education Services: Calix offers an array of self-service and instructor-led, remote and onsite learning and certifications solutions to help CSPs build the skills required to successfully execute deployments and effectively run next generation networks.

Customers
We operate a differentiated customer engagement model that focuses on direct alignment with our customers through sales, service and support. In order to allocate our product development and sales efforts efficiently, we believe that it is critical to target markets, customers and applications deliberately. We have traditionally targeted CSPs, which own, build and upgrade their own access networks and value strong relationships with their systems and software suppliers.
12

The United States Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier, or ILEC, market is composed of three distinct “tiers” of carriers, which we categorize based on their subscriber line counts and geographic coverage. Tier 1 CSPs are very large with wide geographic footprints. They have greater than ten million subscriber lines, and they generally correspond with the former Regional Bell Operating Companies. Tier 2 CSPs also operate typically within a wide geographic footprint, but are smaller in scale with subscriber line counts that range from approximately half a million to approximately seven million subscriber lines. Their service coverage areas are predominantly regional in scope, and therefore they are often known as Regional Local Exchange Carriers. Tier 3 CSPs consist primarily of over 1,000 predominantly local operators (often called IOCs) typically focused on a single community or a cluster of communities, although they also include a growing number of municipalities, electric cooperatives, fiber over builders and wireless ISPs. These entities range in size from a few hundred to approximately half a million subscriber lines.
To date, we have focused primarily on CSPs in the North American market. Our existing customers’ networks serve over 100 million subscriber lines. In North America, our customers span Tier 1s, 2s and 3s, including Verizon Communications Inc.; CenturyLink, Inc., or CenturyLink; Frontier Communications Corporation; Windstream Holdings, Inc., or Windstream; Telephone and Data Systems, Inc., or TDS; Allo Communications; HTC Communications and Grande Communications. We serve many other major players in the broadband services market, including cable MSOs, utilities and municipalities.
We have a few large customers who have represented a significant portion of our sales in any given period. CenturyLink accounted for 31% of total revenue in 2017, 21% in 2016 and 22% in 2015. Windstream accounted for 15% of our revenue in 2016 and less than 10% of our revenue in 2017 and 2015.
Some of our customers within the United States use or expect to use government-supported loan programs or grants to finance capital spending. Loans and grants through Rural Utility Service, or RUS, which is a part of the United States Department of Agriculture, are used to promote the development of telecommunications infrastructure in rural areas.
Sales to customers outside the United States represented approximately 11% of our total revenue in 2017, 9% in 2016 and 12% in 2015. Historically, our sales outside the United States were predominantly to customers in the Caribbean, Canada and Europe.
Customer Engagement Model
We design, market and sell our Calix Cloud and software platforms, systems and Calix Services predominantly through our direct sales force, supported by marketing and product management personnel. We have expanded this model to include a small number of select channel partners in North America, dozens of international channel partners, who are part of our Fiber Forward Partner Program, and a global reseller relationship with Ericsson. Our sales effort is organized either by named accounts or regional responsibilities. Account teams comprise sales managers, supported by solution engineers and account managers, who work to target and sell to existing and prospective CSPs. The sales process includes analyzing CSPs’ existing networks and identifying how they can utilize our products and services within their networks. Even in circumstances where a channel partner is involved, our sales and marketing personnel are often selling side-by-side with the channel partner. We believe that our direct customer engagement approach provides us with significant differentiation in the customer sales process by aligning us more closely with our customers’ changing needs.
Research and Development
Continued investment in research and development is critical to our business. Our research and development team is composed of engineers with expertise in hardware, software and optics. Our teams of engineers are located in our Petaluma, San Jose and Santa Barbara facilities located in California; our Minneapolis, Minnesota facility and our Nanjing, China facility. We also outsource a portion of our software development to domestic and international third parties. Our research and development team is responsible for designing, developing and enhancing our Cloud and software platforms and systems, performing product and quality assurance testing and ensuring the compatibility of our products with third-party hardware and software products. We have made significant investments in the Calix portfolio. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to research and development to develop, enhance and deliver new platform features and capabilities, including investment in innovative technologies that support our business strategy. Our research and development expenses totaled $127.5 million in 2017, $106.9 million in 2016 and $89.7 million in 2015.
Manufacturing
We work closely with third parties to manufacture and deliver our products. Our manufacturing organization consists primarily of supply chain managers, new product introduction personnel and test engineers. We outsource our manufacturing and order fulfillment and tightly integrate our supply chain management and new product introduction activities. Although we have multiple contract manufacturing arrangements and original development manufacturers, or ODMs, we primarily utilize Flex Ltd., or Flex, as our contract manufacturer. Our relationship with Flex allows us to conserve working capital, reduce product costs and minimize delivery lead times while maintaining high product quality. Generally, new product introduction occurs in 
13

Flex’s facilities in Suzhou, China. Once product manufacturing quality and yields reach a satisfactory level, volume production and testing of circuit board assemblies also occur in Suzhou, China. Final system assembly and testing are performed in Flex’s facilities in Guadalajara, Mexico. Order fulfillment is performed by Pegasus Logistics Group, Inc. in Texas. We also evaluate and utilize other vendors for various portions of our supply chain from time to time, including order fulfillment of our circuit boards. This model allows us to operate with lower inventory levels while maintaining the ability to scale quickly to handle increased order volume.
Product reliability is essential for our customers, who place a premium on continuity of service for their subscribers. We perform rigorous in-house quality control testing to help ensure the reliability of our systems. Our internal manufacturing organization designs, develops and implements complex test processes to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products.
The manufacturing of our products by contract manufacturers is a complex process and involves certain risks, including the potential absence of adequate capacity, the unavailability of or interruptions in access to certain process technologies and the reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. As such, we may experience production problems or manufacturing delays. Additionally, shortages in components that we use in our systems are possible and our ability to predict the availability of such components, some sourced from a single or limited source of supply, may be limited. Our systems include some components that are proprietary in nature and only available from a single source, as well as some components that are generally available from a number of suppliers. The lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in product specifications or delivery schedules. In some cases, significant time would be required to establish relationships with alternate suppliers or providers of proprietary components. We generally do not have long-term contracts with component providers that guarantee the supply of components or their manufacturing services. If we experience any difficulties in managing relationships with our contract manufacturers, or any interruption in our own operations or our contract manufacturers operations or if a supplier is unable to meet our needs, we may encounter manufacturing delays that could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to deliver products in a timely manner to our customers would be adversely impacted materially if we needed to qualify replacements for any of the components used in our systems.
Seasonality
Fluctuations in our revenue occur due to many factors, including the varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual capital spending budgets, and in certain regions, customers are also challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit outside fiber deployment.
Intellectual Property
Our success depends upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks as well as customary contractual protections. In addition, we generally control access to and the use of our proprietary technology and other confidential information. This protection is accomplished through a combination of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and partners and through a combination of U.S. and international intellectual property laws.
As of December 31, 2017, we held 119 U.S. patents and had 14 pending U.S. patent applications. One of the U.S. patents is also covered by granted international patents in three countries. As of December 31, 2017, we had no pending international patent applications. U.S. patents generally have a term of twenty years from filing. We have added to our patent portfolio since our inception. The remaining terms on the individual patents vary from one to 19 years.
We rely on intellectual property laws as well as nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. U.S. patent, copyright and trade secret laws afford us only limited protection and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and the issued patents may not be enforceable. Any infringement of proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in competitors offering similar products, resulting in the loss of our competitive advantage and decreased sales.
We believe that the frequency of assertions of patent infringement continues to increase in our industry. In particular, patent holders, including entities and organizations that purchase or hold patents to monetize such rights, assert patent infringement claims as a competitive tactic as well as a source of revenue. Any claim of infringement from a third party, even claims without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against such claims and could distract our management from operating our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be 
14

available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which would require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful.
Competition
The communications equipment market is highly competitive. Competition in this market is based on any one or a combination of the following factors:

• | price;


• | functionality;


• | existing business and customer relationships;


• | the ability of products and services, including turnkey professional services capabilities, to meet customers’ immediate and future network requirements;


• | product quality;


• | installation capability;


• | service and support;


• | scalability; and


• | manufacturing capability.

We compete with a number of companies within markets that we serve, and we anticipate that competition will intensify. Suppliers with which we compete include ADTRAN, Inc., or ADTRAN; Arris Group, Inc.; Ciena Corporation; Cisco Systems Inc.; Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.; Juniper Networks Inc.; Nokia Corporation and ZTE Corporation. There are also a number of smaller companies with which we compete in various geographic or vertical markets, including DASAN Zhone Solutions, Inc. While most of these smaller competitors lack broad national scale and product portfolios, they can offer strong competition on a deal-by-deal basis. As we expand into adjacent markets, we expect to encounter new competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition, manufacturing capacity and technical, financial and marketing resources as well as better established relationships with CSPs than we do. Many of our competitors have greater resources to develop products or pursue acquisitions and more experience in developing or acquiring new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for their products and technologies. In addition, a number of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at below market pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively.
Employees
As of December 31, 2017, we employed a total of 1,031 employees, of which 762 employees were located in the United States. Our United States employees are not represented by a labor union with respect to their employment with us. Two of our French employees are subject to collective bargaining arrangements. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
Corporate Information
Calix, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was founded in August 1999. Our principal executive offices are located at 1035 N. McDowell Boulevard, Petaluma, California 94954, and our telephone number is (707) 766-3000. Our website address is www.calix.com. We do not incorporate the information on or accessible through our website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider any information on, or that can be accessed through, our website as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Calix®, the Calix logo design, E3®, E5®, E7®, E9 TM, Calix Cloud SM, Compass®, Consumer Connect SM, Fiber Forward TM and other trademarks or service marks of Calix appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Calix. Trade names, trademarks and service marks of other companies appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of the respective holders. Calix is subject to the information and periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, and files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Such periodic reports, proxy statements and other information are available for inspection and copying at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 or may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We post on the Investor Relations page of our website, www.calix.com, a link to our filings with the SEC free of charge, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed electronically with the SEC.
15

