Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1: BUSINESS
Introduction
 
Inpixon is a technology company that helps to secure, digitize and optimize any premises with Indoor Positioning Analytics, sometimes referred to in this annual report as “IPA,” for businesses and governments in the connected world. Inpixon Indoor Positioning Analytics is based on new sensor technology that finds all accessible cellular, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and RFID signals anonymously. Paired with a high-performance, data analytics platform, this technology delivers visibility, security and business intelligence on any commercial or government premises world-wide. Inpixon’s products, infrastructure solutions and professional services group help customers take advantage of mobile, Big Data, analytics and the Internet of Things (“IoT”).
Inpixon Indoor Positioning Analytics offer:
 

● | New sensors with proprietary technology that can find all accessible cellular, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and RF signals. Utilizing various radio signal technologies ensures precision device positioning accurately down to arm’s length. This enables highly detailed understanding of customer journey and dwell time in retail scenarios, detection and identification of authorized and unauthorized devices, and prevention of rogue devices through alert notification based on rules when unknown devices are detected in restricted areas. 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Data science analytics with lightning fast data mining using an in-memory database that uses a dynamic blend of RAM and NAND along with specially optimized algorithms that both minimize data movement and maximize system performance. This enables the system to deliver reports with valuable insights to the user as well as to integrate with common third party visualization, charting, graphing and dashboard systems. 
● | Insights that deliver visibility and business intelligence about detailed customer journey and flow analysis of in-stores and storefronts allowing businesses to better understand customer preferences, measure campaign effectiveness, uncover revenue opportunities and deliver an exceptional shopping experience. 

 
Inpixon Indoor Positioning Analytics can assist all types of establishments, including brands, retailers, shopping malls and shopping centers, hotels and resorts, gaming operators, airports, healthcare facilities, office buildings and government agencies, by providing greater security, gaining better business intelligence, increasing consumer confidence and reducing risk while being compliant with applicable “Personal Identifiable Information” regulations.
 
2018 IPA Product Development
 
Inpixon is a company in the information and technology industry and therefore keeping up with the technological advancements within the industry are critical to our long term success and growth. As a result, our senior management must continuously work to ensure that they remain informed and prepared to quickly adapt and leverage new technologies within our product and service offering as such technologies become available. In connection with that goal, our 2018 product roadmap development plans include the use of blockchain technology to maintain and propagate device reputation, enforcing security policies and attaining compliance, artificial intelligence for amassing anonymous device information and a voice-assisted analytics interface. (See additional information regarding our 2018 product development plans under the heading “Our Products and Services”).
Infrastructure Segment
 
In addition, in connection with the Company’s infrastructure value-added reseller segment (the “VAR Segment”), Inpixon currently resells third party hardware, software and related maintenance/warranty products and services to commercial and government customers. It includes but is not limited to, products for enterprise computing, storage, virtualization, and networking. Some of the services offered in connection with the VAR Segment include custom application/software design, architecture and development, staff augmentation, project management, business continuity, data migration, networking and information technology business consulting services. These services allow Inpixon to offer turnkey solutions that allow for the integration of third party products into existing infrastructure when requested by customers. As described below under the heading “Corporate Strategy” the Company’s strategic plans include exploring options to divest the VAR Segment and focus its business on the other products and services described below including the development and growth of its IPA platform.

1
-

Corporate Strategy
 
Management’s corporate strategy is to continue to build and develop Inpixon as a technology company that provides turnkey solutions from the collection of data to delivering insights from that data to our customers with a focus on securing, digitizing and optimizing premises with IPA for businesses and governments. In connection with such strategy and in order to facilitate our long-term growth, we have acquired certain companies, technologies and intellectual property (“IP”) that complement such goals and will continue to consider completing additional strategic acquisitions as long as our financial condition permits. An important element of this mergers and acquisitions strategy is to acquire companies with complementary capabilities and/or innovative and commercially proven technologies in indoor positioning and Big Data analytics and to obtain an established customer base. We believe that acquiring complementary products and/or IP will add value to the Company, and the customer base of each potential acquisition may also present an opportunity to cross-sell our existing solutions. Candidates with proven technologies that complement our overall strategy may come from anywhere in the world, so long as there are strategic and financial reasons to make the acquisition. If we make any acquisitions in the future, we expect that we may pay for such acquisitions using our equity securities, cash and debt financing in combinations appropriate for each acquisition.
 
In connection with our strategic business plan, Inpixon may also consider the sale or divestment of certain assets for strategic and financial purposes, even if that asset makes up a majority of our revenue, should management deem such transactions necessary or desirable in order to facilitate its overall strategy. In particular, Inpixon is exploring options that may include a divesture of our Infrastructure segment, sometimes referred to as the Value Added Reseller (VAR) business. While a sale, spin-off or other transaction that may result in the separation of these two business segments may significantly reduce our revenues since this business segment currently accounts for approximately 93% of our total revenues, we believe such a strategic transaction may also reduce operating expenses and eliminate substantially all of our trade debt. A divesture of this segment would allow Inpixon to solely focus on the Indoor Positioning Analytics (IPA) business for which we have historically recognized lower revenues, but which we believe has greater growth potential and substantially better gross margins than the Infrastructure segment. Such a transaction would also allow Inpixon USA to focus its resources on its core business without the need to divert resources for the research and development of the IPA business and products, which management believes may allow the VAR business to achieve profitability sooner than if the businesses are combined. A spin-off or sale of the VAR business would separate Inpixon USA, including its wholly-owned subsidiary Inpixon Federal (the “Inpixon USA”), which maintains the commercial and federal VAR business, as a separate entity independent from the Company, including the associated employees, assets and liabilities related to the VAR business. All other assets and liabilities of Inpixon USA that are not associated with the VAR would be contributed to or otherwise retained by the Company. There are no assurances that we will be able to complete any such transaction, however, if such a transaction is consummated, we cannot assure you that it will be on favorable terms. For example, if the divesture is structured as a tax-free spin-off, we and Inpixon USA, may be restricted from (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of our common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing shares of our common stock other than in certain open-market transactions, or (iv) ceasing to actively conduct certain of our businesses. As a result, these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that we believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our businesses. For illustration purposes attached as Exhibit 99.1 of this report are unaudited pro forma financial information presenting the consolidated results of operations of the Company as if such a divestiture had occurred as of January 1, 2016. The proforma does not necessarily (1) reflect the results of operations that would have occurred had the entities been a stand-alone company during those periods, (2) the terms of any consideration that may be delivered to the Company in connection with a sale, (3) the impact of a dividend distribution in the event of a spin-off or (4) the contribution by Inpixon to Inpixon USA of any cash amounts to support its operations following the divesture.


Industry Overview
 
We believe that more and more enterprises are realizing the importance of employing Information Technology in their operations. The technology growth story has long focused on the consumer, but as enterprises in every industry sector, including the government sector, look to technology to facilitate and transform their own operations, the opportunities for technology companies have broadened considerably. The following information illustrates the ways in which various IT markets are expected to grow.
 
The indoor location market is estimated to grow from $7,11 billion in 2017 to $40.22 billion by 2022, at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR of 42%. (Source: http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/indoor-location.asp)
 
The location analytics market is expected to grow from $8.20 billion in 2016 to $16.34 billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 17.6% from 2016 to 2021. (Source: https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/indoor-location.asp)
 
The location-based services (“LBS”) and real-time location systems (“RTLS”) market has grown considerably over the past few years and is expected to grow further with increasing portable personal digital assistant (“PDA”)-based e-commerce. The overall market is expected to grow from $15.04 billion in 2016 to $77.84 billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 38.9%.
 

2
-

 

The IDC Worldwide Semiannual Big Data and Analytics Spending Guide, released October 3, 2016, predicts that the Big Data and business analytics market will grow from $130 billion by the end of 2016 to $203 billion by 2020. That is a CAGR of 11.7% over the next years, according to IDC. (Source: http://www.informationweek.com/big-data/big-data-analytics-market-to-hit-$203-billion-in-2020-/d/d-id/1327092)
 
In July 2013, Cisco forecasted that The Internet of Things, which consists of smart connected objects in homes, businesses and our surroundings that have the ability communicate over a multimodal network without human-to-human or human-to-computer involvement, would grow to 50 billion devices by the year 2020.
 
According to a report by Allied Market Research titled, “Mobile Security Market by Solution (Authentication, Sim card, Mobile application management, Mobile data protection and Firewall), Type (E-mail, Antivirus and Malware), End User (Individual user, Enterprise user, Financial Institutions, Retail, Government, Telecommunication & IT, Education, Manufacturing & Automotive Aerospace, Defense, Intelligence) and Operating System (iOS, Blackberry, Android, Windows) - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry Forecast, 2013 - 2020”, the global mobile security market would reach $34.8 billion by 2020, registering a CAGR of 40.8% during 2014 – 2020. 
 
The cyber security market size is estimated to grow from USD 122.45 Billion in 2016 to USD 202.36 Billion by 2021, at a CAGR of 10.6% during the forecast period. 2015 is considered to be the base year while the forecast period is 2016 – 2021. (Source: http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/cyber-security-market-505.html?gclid=COSEpv-Ho9MCFYVgfgodYmAJXw)
 
Cyber crime damages will cost the world $6 trillion annually by 2021, up from $2 trillion in 2015. (Source: https://www.csoonline.com/article/3153707/security/top-5-cybersecurity-facts-figures-and-statistics.html)
 
According to industry sources, the cloud analytics market is expected to grow from $7.5 Billion in 2015 to $23.1 Billion in 2020 at a CAGR of 25.1% during the forecast period. (source: http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/cloud-based-business-analytics.asp) 
 
According to a report by Gartner, the annual retail IT spend is more than $205 B annually and advanced analytics is the technology most retails (88%) believe will change their organization during the next five years. (Source: https://www.gartner.com/doc/3837964/market-guide-advanced-analytics-service)
 
The U.S. Federal IT market will reach $140 billion by 2023, growing at CAGR 3.6% in the period 2018-2023 according to Market Research Media (Source: https://www.marketresearchmedia.com/?p=193)
 
We expect that investment in IT research and development will continue to be strong in the future and that technologies like ours will deliver new level of value and opportunities for business enterprises.
 
Corporate Structure
 
We have three operating subsidiaries: (i) Inpixon USA (100% ownership) based in Larkspur, California and its wholly-owned subsidiary Inpixon Federal, Inc. based in Herndon, Virginia, which focuses on the U.S. Federal government market; (ii) Inpixon Canada Corp. based in Coquitlam, British Columbia; and (iii) Sysorex India (82.5% ownership) based in Hyderabad, India.
 
These consolidated subsidiaries operate in the following business segments:
 

● | Indoor Positioning Analytics: This segment includes Inpixon’s proprietary products and services delivered on premise or in the Cloud as well as our hosted SaaS based solutions. Our Indoor Positioning Analytics product is based on a unique and patented sensor technology that detects and locates accessible cellular, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth devices and then uses a lightning fast data-analytics engine to deliver actionable insights and intelligent reports for security, marketing, asset management, etc. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Infrastructure: This segment includes third party hardware, software and related maintenance/warranty products and services that Inpixon resells to commercial and government customers. It includes but is not limited to products for enterprise computing; storage; virtualization; networking; etc. as well as services including custom application/software design; architecture and development; staff augmentation and project management. 

 
Although the subsidiaries are separate legal entities, the Company is currently structured by function and organized to operate in an integrated fashion as one business.
 

3
-

Corporate History
 
The Company was formed in Nevada in April 1999.
 
On July 29, 2011, we acquired all of the stock of the U.S. Federal government business of the Company, which included Sysorex Federal and its subsidiary Sysorex Government, and 50.2% of the stock of the operating unit of the Company engaged in Saudi Arabian government contracts, Sysorex Arabia, LLC. 
 
On March 20, 2013, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Lilien LLC, including all the outstanding capital stock of Lilien Systems. In conjunction with our name to Inpixon effective on March 1, 2017, Lilien Systems was renamed Inpixon USA. Inpixon USA, based in Larkspur, California, is an information technology company that provides a Big Data analytics platform and enterprise infrastructure capabilities. Inpixon USA delivers right-fit information technology solutions in enterprise computing and storage, virtualization, business continuity, networking and IT business consulting that help organizations reach their next level of business advantage.
 
Effective August 31, 2013, we acquired 100% of the stock of Shoom. Shoom, which was merged into Inpixon USA in January 2016, provides us with Cloud based data analytics and enterprise solutions to the media, publishing and entertainment industries.
 
Effective April 18, 2014, we acquired 100% of the stock of AirPatrol Corporation. AirPatrol, which was merged into Inpixon USA in January 2016, developed indoor device locationing, monitoring and management technologies for mobile devices operating on WiFi, cellular and wideband RF networks. Through AirPatrol we acquired two product lines, ZoneDefense (now rebranded “Inpixon Security”) and ZoneAware (now rebranded “Inpixon Intelligence”). These products and technologies deliver solutions to address an exploding global location-based mobile security and services (“LBS”) and real-time location systems (“RTLS”) market estimated to be more than $15.0 billion in 2016 and to grow to $77.8 billion by 2021, growing at 37.5% (Source:http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/location-based-service-market- 96994431.html?gclid=CKz8gKml69ICFQx6fgodTkoBNQ). Inpixon Intelligence (formerly known as AirPatrol for Retail or Zone Aware) also serves as a location-based services, sales and marketing system. The security platform connects to third party apps on a user’s mobile device that provide functions such as location-based offers, discounts and suggestive selling, VIP service functions (for hotels, resorts, casinos, etc.), and location-based information delivery such as mobile-based guided tours of historic sites, points of interest and museums, shopping center maps, building floor plans and so on. These products require no app installation for anonymous collection of behavioral data such as traffic flow, entry and exit patterns, length of stay and other business intelligence and analytics functions.
 
On April 24, 2015, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of LightMiner Systems, Inc. (“LightMiner”), which was in the business of developing and commercializing in-memory Structured Query Language databases. The assets acquired from LightMiner included an in-memory, real-time, data analysis system designed to perform very large, highly complex and extremely difficult calculations using off-the-shelf hardware and memory. The system supports both traditional SQL-based business intelligence and analytics applications as well as a host of integrated statistical, machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms allowing it to provide supercomputer-like performance at competitive prices.
 
On December 4, 2015 and effective January 1, 2016, our Board of Directors approved the following reorganization transactions: (1) statutory mergers of AirPatrol and Shoom with and into Lilien, pursuant to which Lilien was the surviving corporation and changed its name to “Sysorex USA”; and (2) a short-form statutory merger of the Company with a newly-formed wholly-owned Nevada corporation, pursuant to which the Company changed its name to “Sysorex Global”. Immediately prior to the consummation of these mergers, the Company carried out (i) an assignment from AirPatrol to the Company of all shares of capital stock of AirPatrol Research, pursuant to which AirPatrol Research became a direct subsidiary of the Company; (ii) the amendment of AirPatrol Research’s Notice of Articles to change its name to “Sysorex Canada Corp.”; (iii) the dissolution and winding up of Sysorex Federal, in which Sysorex Federal assigned and transferred all of its assets, including all outstanding shares of capital stock of Sysorex Government, to the Company, and the Company assumed Sysorex Federal’s debts and liabilities; (iv) an assignment from the Company to Lilien of all outstanding shares of capital stock of Sysorex Government, pursuant to which Sysorex Government became a direct subsidiary of Lilien. 
 
On November 21, 2016 we completed the acquisition of the business and certain assets of Integrio Technologies, LLC (“Integrio” or “Integrio Technologies”) and Emtech Federal, LLC (“Emtech Federal”). Integrio, together with Emtech Federal, is an IT integration and engineering company that provides solutions for network performance, secure wireless infrastructure, software application lifecycle support, and physical cyber security for federal, state and local government agencies.
 

4
-

 

On February 27, 2017, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Inpixon, our wholly-owned Nevada subsidiary formed solely for the purpose of changing our corporate name from Sysorex Global to Inpixon. As part of the name change, each of our subsidiaries also amended their corporate charters to change their names from Sysorex USA, Sysorex Government Services, Inc. and Sysorex Canada Corp. to Inpixon USA, Inpixon Federal, Inc. and Inpixon Canada, Inc., respectively, effective as of March 1, 2017. Also effective March 1, 2017, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada to effect a 1-for-15 reverse stock split of the Company’s common stock.
 
Effective as of December 31, 2017 the Company acquired approximately 82.5% of the outstanding equity securities of Sysorex India Limited (“Sysorex India”) from Sysorex Consulting, Inc. (“SCI”) pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 31, 2017 by and among the Company, SCI and Sysorex India, for aggregate consideration for the assignment by the Company of $666,000 of outstanding receivables.
 
On January 18, 2018, the Company sold its 50.2% interest in Sysorex Arabia to Sysorex Consulting, Inc. (“SCI”) in consideration for SCI’s assumption of 50.2% of the assets and liabilities of Sysorex Arabia, totaling approximately $11,400 and $1,031,000, respectively.
 
On February 2, 2018, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada to increase the total number of authorized shares of common stock from 50,000,000 to 250,000,000, as approved by the Company’s stockholders at a special meeting held on February 2, 2018 and effective upon filing (the “Authorized Share Amendment”).
 
On February 2, 2018, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada to effect a 1-for-30 reverse stock split of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares of common stock, effective as of February 6, 2018 (the “Reverse Stock Split”). Our common stock began trading on a Reverse Stock Split-adjusted basis on the Nasdaq Capital Market at the opening of trading on February 6, 2018.
 
Our Products and Services
 
We provide the following products and services that may be used by any number of businesses and government agencies.
 

● | LightMiner Analytics Platform — This is an advanced solution for aggregating and mining multi-terabyte Big Data sets in real time for instant insights. The product is Cloud-based so there’s nothing to install and it is fully scalable to meet even the most demanding business requirements. Our quick start analytics modules are available for a variety of industry verticals and applications. 
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Data Science and Advanced Analytics Consulting Services — Our consulting services are backed by our data science and analytics team that develops data driven solutions for the most complex challenges. Our team’s extensive experience and unique strategies allow it to leverage Big Data in new ways to uncover hidden insights and create new business opportunities. 
● | Inpixon Security (formerly AirPatrol ZoneDefense) – This is a mobile security and detection product that locates devices operating within a monitored area, determines their compliance with network security policies for that zone, and if the device is not compliant, can trigger policy modification of device apps and/or features either directly or via third party mobile device, application and network management tools. 
● | Inpixon Intelligence (formerly AirPatrol ZoneAware) – This is a commercial product for enabling location and/or context-based marketing services and information delivery to mobile devices based on zones as small as 10 feet or as large as a square mile. The monitored areas may include a building, a campus, a mall, and outdoor regions like a downtown. Unlike other mobile locationing technologies, Inpixon technologies use passive sensors that work over both cellular and WiFi networks and offer device locationing and zone-based app and information delivery accurate to within 10 feet. Additionally, unlike geo-fencing systems, Inpixon technologies are capable of simultaneously enabling different policies and delivering different apps or information to multiple devices within the same zone based on contexts such as the type of device, the device user and time of day. 


5
-


● | Shoom Products (eTearsheets; eInvoice, AdDelivery, ePaper) - The Shoom products are Cloud based applications and analytics for the media and publishing industry. These products also generate critical data analytics for the customers. 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions and Services — These products and services help organizations tackle challenges and accelerate business goals by implementing best of breed technology solutions. We believe that our deep expertise in a broad range of infrastructure solutions, from storage and Big Data solutions to converged infrastructure and cyber security, delivers impactful results for our clients. 
● | IT Services — From enterprise architecture design to custom application development and integration, Inpixon offers a variety of information technology development and implementation services including: systems integration with third-party data sources such as point of sale data; social media data; meteorological data; integration with data warehouse/data lakes; existing on-premise wi-fi access points; security/access-control systems; API integration with mobile device management products; and more. 

2018 IPA Product Enhancements
 
Inpixon is a company in the information and technology industry and therefore keeping up with the technological advancements within the industry are critical to our long term success and growth. As a result, our senior management must continuously work to ensure that they remain informed and prepared to quickly adapt and leverage new technologies within our product and service offering as such technologies become available. In connection with that goal, our 2018 product roadmap development plans include the use of blockchain technology to maintain and propagate device reputation, enforcing security policies and attaining compliance, artificial intelligence for amassing anonymous device information and a voice-assisted analytics interface.
Blockchain Technology for Device Reputation
 
Our IPA platform locates, monitors and analyzes the path of all cellular, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth devices, regardless of make, manufacturer or device type, allowing not just the ability to identify and prevent unwanted mobile devices, but also the ability to track and analyze device traffic within an indoor location. The addition of “device reputation” to our IPA platform has been an important component of our anticipated product enhancements. “Device reputation” refers to information regarding the particular history of a device, such as when a device enters a certain location, where within that location the device has travelled, the types of activities for which the device was previously used, including, but not limited to, whether the device is linked to prior fraudulent activities, and information concerning accounts that the device might be linked to.
 
We intend to use “blockchain technology” in order to propagate device reputation profiles. “Blockchain technology” refers to a type of decentralized “distributed ledger” or database that can be used to securely record, store, share and synchronize data or information across multiple networks in various locations. The lack of a centralized location to store information concerning a single device reputation profile results in a more secure repository for data and makes hacking or accessing that information for fraudulent purposes extremely difficult. Accessing and falsifying or otherwise using information that is stored across a network of multiple servers in different locations for fraudulent purposes would require breaching not just one server but the majority of the servers on which the information is stored making it significantly more difficult, if not impossible, to breach, thus creating a higher level of security. We intend to leverage open source blockchain technology available to us without cost, by re-engineering such technology from a transaction based schema to a behavior based schema in order to create a private proprietary code-base specifically for use within our IPA platform, to serve as a repository of “device reputation” collected in connection with our IPA platform’s analytics capabilities. The collected data regarding device behavior will be secured through conventional methods of encrypted storage allowing for tamper proof audit trails with respect to device activity and behavior. While we may decide to hire 1-3 additional employees during 2018 with greater expertise with blockchain technology, the addition of these employees is not critical to our business plans insofar as the intent is to use open source technology and consult with third parties and/or provide training for its employees on an as needed basis. We currently expect that proof of concept and the test scenario implementation of this technology within our IPA platform will be available at the end of the first quarter or the middle of the second quarter of 2018.
 

6
-

Artificial Intelligence
 
In 2018, we intend to expand our use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to anonymously capture device identity, build a repository of device profiles and fingerprints, and offer intelligent solutions, which will continue to be refined over time, for enterprise security and marketing customers. Following this enhancement, Inpixon’s IPA AI engine will be able to assist in providing predictive, more accurate, bidirectional information to secure the indoors. Inpixon’s IPA AI engine will interface with disparate customer site data sources and the platform’s locationing data. The AI engine will apply heuristic analytical algorithms to data that is accumulated over time, identifying new patterns in device and customer behavior, and deliver this information to customers and users via IPA and/or an application program interface (API) in real time. For the security domain, IPA’s AI analytics will be able to identify device behavior patterns on networks that are associated with existing blacklisted devices, analyze device behavior and, after pattern matching, predictively alert users to a potentially risky device and quarantine eminent threats. Inpixon intends to incorporate the use of blockchain technology in order to deliver the blacklisted catalog and risky behavior patterns to on-premises IPA components so that detection is near instantaneous. By applying the same technology to the retail and marketing dimension, IPA’s AI engine will give managers the ability to accurately predict and quantify variance in crowd movement patterns, footfalls, and revenue for store relocations and marketing campaigns, providing Inpixon customers with the opportunity to monetize this intelligence in correlation with big data like dwell time, weather patterns, and demographics. We intend to continue to add AI and machine learning enhancements to our platform as we expand our customer base and add new big data partners to our ecosystem.
Voice-Assisted Analytics Interface
 
We also intend to use enterprise voice-user interface (VUI) technology to support our network of retail and marketing customers in making better decisions with deeper intelligence. The VUI technology in our IPA platform will perform as a digital assistant for marketers, allowing them to make quick, hands-free decisions based on vetted, predictive information provided with simple voice/speech commands while also providing a complete audit trail. While the use of platforms such as Siri, Alexa, and Google Assistant have made VUIs modern household names, Inpixon’s IPA VUI is uniquely built for the enterprise marketing space digital assistant with no monitor, no keyboard, no mouse and only an audio input/output device that functions just like a search engine, listening for keywords. While the technology itself is not revolutionary, it will modernize meetings and brainstorm sessions by speeding up intelligence gathering, with nearly instantaneous access to company information and big data, it will be able to predict outcomes based on past information, and make suggestions to keep business moving efficiently and effectively. At the same time, Inpixon’s IPA VUI will maintain a written log of all queries, seamlessly reporting all statistics back to meeting attendees through an automated email. We currently expect that proof of concept of this technology within our IPA platform will be available in the second quarter of 2018.
Research and Development Expenses
 
Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Our management believes that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain a competitive position. Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 totaled $1.8 million and $2.3 million, respectively.
Sales and Marketing
 
IPA Segment
 
In our IPA segment, we utilize direct sales and marketing through approximately five sales representatives, who are compensated with a base salary and, in certain instances, with incentive plans such as commissions or bonuses. We utilize webinars, conferences, tradeshows and other direct and indirect marketing activities to generate demand for our products and services. We also have relationships with channel partners to directly engage with customers and to perform the installation services. We train our partners and we have our own channel/partner managers to support and augment partners as needed. We are in the process of expanding our channel partners in both security and intelligence markets.
 
Our Inpixon products are primarily sold on a license (up-front one-time fee) or software-as-a-service (SaaS) model. In our licensing model we also typically charge an annual maintenance fee. The SaaS model is typically for a 2-3 year contract and includes maintenance upgrades. The SaaS model generates a recurring revenue stream. Our Shoom product is on a monthly subscription model based on 2-3 year contracts.
 
Infrastructure Segment
 
For our infrastructure segment, we utilize direct marketing through approximately a dozen outside and inside sales representatives, who are compensated with a base salary and, in certain instances, with incentive plans such as commissions or bonuses. We utilize tradeshows, government events and websites, vendor provided market development funds and other direct and indirect marketing activities to generate demand for our products and services. We also have extensive relationships with vendor/supplier partners to directly engage with customers.

7
-

 

We have built a core competency in bidding on government requests for proposals in the infrastructure segment. We utilize our internal bid and proposal team as well as consultants to prepare the proposal responses for government clients. We also use business development, sales and account management employees or consultants.
 
As part of our end-to-end IT solutions, we are authorized resellers of the products and services of leading IT manufacturers and distributors. In many cases, we have achieved the highest level of relationship the manufacturer or distributor offers. In addition, our employees hold certifications issued by these manufacturers and by industry associations relating to the configuration, installation and servicing of these products. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors by the range of manufacturers and distributors we represent, the relationship level we have achieved with these manufacturers and distributors and the scope of the manufacturer and industry certifications our employees hold.
 
The Infrastructure segment has a variety of contracts that vary from cost plus to time and material in its storage and computing and professional services segments. These apply to both commercial and government customers including contracts recently acquired from Integrio Technologies.
 
Customers
 
Inpixon has worked with over 1,000 customers company-wide since inception. These customers include many civilian and defense federal, state and local government agencies as well as enterprise customers in retail, manufacturing, life sciences, bio-tech, high-tech, agriculture, financial services, state and local government, utilities, media and entertainment, telecom and many other verticals. A partial list of Infrastructure segment customers include Healthnet, Gilead Sciences, Dow Jones Local Media Group, Gannett, RockStar Games, Hewlett Packard, Evault, Hawaii Electric, Hearst Corporation, E& J Gallo Winery, U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, Business Wire, Premera Blue Cross and the City of Seattle. IPA segment customers include Cadillac Fairview, Al Nakheel, Finance Factors and several U.S. Federal Government agencies and certain other Fortune 1000 companies.
 
The Company does not depend on one or a few customers, however, as a result of our acquisition of Integrio, there are a few large government contracts (SEWP, CIO-CS, GSA) that may generate a significant portion of our revenues during 2018, but these are task order contracts that come from a variety of end-user customers. In the private sector we have long term client relationships that may generate approximately 5%-10% of our revenue in a particular quarter as a result of a large project that may be in process, but once the project is completed another project may not be immediately undertaken.
 
 Competition
 
Our IPA segment products compete with WiFi based detection companies such as Aruba, Cisco, Euclid Analytics and other smaller companies. However, these companies currently offer only WiFi detection and therefore we believe they cannot achieve the accuracy that Inpixon can achieve. Inpixon has partnered with or replaced some of these companies because it offers WiFi, cellular, RFID and Bluetooth and has a location accuracy of approximately 10-feet. Mobile device management companies like AirWatch, Mobile Iron and Good Technology have also integrated with Inpixon instead of developing competing products. MerlinOne and PressTeligence compete with the functionality of our Shoom products, but typically provide information only for the specific customer and not for the customer’s competitors or for the industry.
 
In the Infrastructure segment, we face substantial competition from other national, multi-regional, regional and local value-added resellers and IT service providers, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we do or that may have more fully developed business relationships with clients or prospective clients than we do. Many of our competitors compete principally on the basis of price and may have lower costs or accept lower selling prices than we do and, therefore, we may need to reduce our prices. In addition, manufacturers may choose to market their products directly to end-users, rather than through IT solutions providers such as us, and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 

8
-

 

The U.S. Government systems integration business is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. We compete with a large number of systems integrators, hardware and software manufacturers, and other large and diverse companies attempting to enter or expand their presence in the U.S. Government market. Many of the existing and potential competitors have greater financial, operating and technological resources than we have. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our pricing, services or marketing. The competitive bidding process involves substantial costs and a number of risks, including significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, or that may be awarded, but for which we do not receive meaningful revenues. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. In the government services sector our competition includes large systems integrators and defense contractors as well as small businesses such as 8a, Women Owned, Veteran Disabled, Alaskan Native, etc. Some of these competitors include global defense and IT service companies including IBM Global Services, LogicaCMG, CSC, ATOS Origins, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon IT Services and SAIC.
 
This complex landscape of domestic and multi-national services companies creates a challenging environment. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. While we believe that, due to the functionality of our products, we can successfully compete in all of these markets, at this time we do not represent a significant presence in any these markets.
 
Intellectual Property
 
The Company expects to file trademark applications for the names Inpixon, Inpixon — Indoor Positioning & Analytics, and Inpixon — Security Dome. The Company uses several trademarks relating to the products and services of Inpixon/AirPatrol and owns one registered mark, ZoneDefense®. The Company has several awarded and/or pending patent applications in various countries, including the United States, relating to Inpixon/AirPatrol products and two pending patent applications, both of which are filed in the United States, relating to Lightminer products. The awarded patents were issued September 23, 2015, September 23, 2014 and September 16, 2014 and will expire in the years 2032, 2031 and 2028, respectively.
Government Regulation
 
In general, we are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition.
 
Furthermore, U.S. Government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. Government, department-specific regulations that implement or supplement DFAR, such as the DoD’s Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (“DFARS”) and other applicable laws and regulations. We are also subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts.
 
Violations of one or more of these diverse legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. To date, compliance with these regulations has not been financially burdensome.
 
Employees
 
As of March 9, 2018, we have 86 employees including 4 part-time employees. This includes 5 officers, 12 sales personnel, 2 marketing personnel, 56 technical/engineering personnel and 11 finance and administration personnel.
 

9
-

Emerging Growth Company
 
As a company with less than $1.0 billion in revenue during our most recently completed fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. As an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of specified reduced disclosure and other requirements that are otherwise applicable, in general, to public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These provisions include:

● | Reduced disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements; 
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | No non-binding shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements; 
● | Exemption from the auditor attestation requirement in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting; and 

 
Reduced disclosure of financial information in this report, limited to two years of audited financial information and two years of selected financial information.
 
As a smaller reporting company, each of the foregoing exemptions is currently available to us. We may take advantage of these exemptions for up to five years or such earlier time that we are no longer an emerging growth company. We would cease to be an emerging growth company if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenues as of the end of a fiscal year, if we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or if we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year-period.
 
The JOBS Act permits an emerging growth company to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. We have chosen to “opt out” of this provision. Therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.
 
Corporate Information
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 2479 E. Bayshore Road, Suite 195, Palo Alto, CA 94303, and our telephone number is (408) 702-2167. Our subsidiaries maintain offices in Herndon Virginia, Larkspur California, Encino California, and Coquitlam, British Columbia. Our Internet website is www.inpixon.com. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report, and you should not rely on any such information in making any investment decision relating to our common stock.
