Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS
Overview
 
We harness proprietary big data predictive analytics, artificial intelligence and telehealth, combined with human intervention, to deliver improved member health and cost savings to health plans through integrated technology enabled treatment solutions. It is our mission to provide access to affordable and effective care, thereby improving health and reducing cost of care for people who suffer from the medical consequences of behavioral health conditions; helping these people and their families achieve and maintain better lives.
 
Our OnTrak solution--contracted with a growing number of national and regional health plans--is designed to treat members with behavioral conditions that cause or exacerbate co-existing medical conditions. We have a unique ability to engage these members, who do not otherwise seek behavioral healthcare, leveraging proprietary enrollment capabilities built on deep insights into the drivers of care avoidance matched with data driven motivational and consumer engagement technologies. 
 
OnTrak integrates evidence-based medical and psychosocial interventions along with care coaching in a 52-week outpatient solution. The program is currently improving member health and, at the same time, is demonstrating reduced inpatient and emergency room utilization, driving a more than 54 percent reduction in total health insurers' costs for enrolled members. OnTrak is available to members of several leading health plans in Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.
 
We have not been profitable since being incorporated in 2003 and may continue to incur operating losses for at least the next twelve months. 
 
We believe that our business and operations as outlined above are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and the criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation by various federal and state legislatures, courts, enforcement and regulatory authorities. Our future prospects are subject to the legal, regulatory, commercial and scientific risks outlined below and in Item 1.A “Risk Factors.”
 
Substance Dependence 
 
Scientific research indicates that not only can drugs interfere with normal brain functioning, but they can also have long-lasting effects that persist even after the drug is no longer being used. Data indicates that at some point, changes may occur in the brain that can turn drug and alcohol abuse into substance dependence—a chronic, relapsing, and sometimes fatal disease. Those dependent on drugs may suffer from compulsive drug craving and usage and be unable to stop drug use or remain drug abstinent without effective treatment. Professional medical treatment may be necessary to end this physiologically-based compulsive behavior. 
 
 1



Substance dependence is a worldwide problem with prevalence rates continuing to rise despite the efforts by national and local health authorities to curtail its growth. Substance dependence disorders affect many people and have wide-ranging social consequences. In 2016, an estimated 20.1 million adults in the United States (U.S.) met the criteria for substance dependence, according to the National Survey of Drug Use and Health.

We believe the best results in treating substance dependence can be achieved in programs such as our OnTrak solution that integrate psychosocial and medical treatment modalities and provide longer term support on an out-patient basis.
 
Anxiety Disorders
 
According to the National Institute of Mental Health, anxiety disorders are the most common mental illness in the U.S., affecting an estimated 19.1% of adults aged 18 years or older. People with anxiety disorders are:
 

● | Three to five times more likely to go to the doctor; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------


● | Six times more likely to be hospitalized for psychiatric disorders.
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------

Mood Disorders
 
In 2016, an estimated 10.3 million U.S. adults aged 18 or older, or approximately 4.3% of all U.S. adults, had at least one major depressive episode in the past year, according to the National Institute of Mental Health. Patients with substance dependence and mood disorders were ranked four out of the top 10 reasons leading to readmission rates for Medicaid patients.
Our Market 
 
The true impact of behavioral health is often under-identified by organizations that provide healthcare benefits. The reality is that individuals with behavioral health conditions:
 

● | are prevalent in any organization;
--+-----------------------------------


● | cost health plans and employers a disproportionate amount of money;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------


● | have higher rates of absenteeism and lower rates of productivity; and
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------


● | have co-morbid medical conditions which incur increased costs for the treatment of these conditions compared to a non-substance dependent population.
--+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
When considering behavioral health-related costs, many organizations have historically only looked at direct treatment costs–usually behavioral claims.  The reality is that individuals with behavioral health conditions generally have overall poorer health and lower compliance, which leads to more expensive treatment for related, and even seemingly unrelated, co-occurring medical conditions. In fact, for the members we seek to engage our solutions, costs associated with behavioral health treatment are a small portion of their overall healthcare claims.
 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau in 2014, there were over 283 million lives in the U.S. covered by various private managed care programs, including Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs), Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs), self-insured employers and managed Medicare/Medicaid programs.  Each year, based on our analysis, approximately 1.9% of commercial plan members will have a substance dependence diagnosis, and that figure may be lesser or greater for specific payors depending on the health plan demographics and location.  A smaller, high-cost subset of this population drives the majority of the claims costs for the overall substance dependent population.  For commercial members with substance dependence and a total annual claims cost of at least $7,500, the average annual per member claims cost is $30,000, compared with an average of $3,250 for a commercial non-substance dependent member, according to our research.

 2



Our Customers
 
Our customers provide health insurance to individuals or groups (Contracted Membership). We contract with our customers to provide our OnTrak solution to the customers’ Contracted Membership generally in specific lines of business (e.g., commercial, Medicare, Medicaid, etc.) and/or specific states or other geographical areas and for specific indications, such as substance use disorders and, more recently, anxiety and depression. We refer to the Contracted Membership to whom we are providing the OnTrak solution as Covered Lives. Generally, we receive data relating to the Covered Lives on a regular basis from our customers. We use that data to identify members who meet our contractual eligibility requirements (Eligible Members) and we attempt to engage and enroll those members in our OnTrak solution. Our Eligible Members can fluctuate significantly from month to month due to fluctuations in our customers’ Contracted Membership and changes in eligibility due to changes in claims or eligibility data provided to us by our customers. Based on our analysis of the data provided to us by our customers, approximately 0.45% of the adult Contracted Membership in a commercial line of business is anticipated to be eligible for our OnTrak solution. Based on our analysis, Medicare and Medicaid lines of business average approximately 1.13% of the adult members anticipated to be eligible for our OnTrak solution. Further, our preliminary data analysis shows that adding anxiety and depression indications to our Covered Lives will increase our pool of Eligible Members substantially. Based on the latest data provided by one of our customers that has contracted for us to provide OnTrak for anxiety, adding the anxiety and depression indications are anticipated to increase the number of Eligible Members by approximately four times over substance use disorders alone. There are fluctuations in the number of Eligible Members across customers and geographies. Our analysis to date is based on limited data, and in some cases like anxiety and depression, very limited data. There can be no assurance that the data we have analyzed to date will be predictive of the future or that the portion of Covered Lives that are eligible for our programs will not change in the future. In addition, the percentage of Eligible Members in any lines of Covered Lives may fluctuate substantially from period to period.
Our Solution: OnTrak
 
OnTrak™

Our OnTrak solution combines evidence-based medical and psychosocial treatments with elements of population health management and ongoing member support to help health plans treat members with substance dependence, anxiety and depression and to improve member health and lower the overall health plan costs of these members. We believe the benefits of our OnTrak solution include improved clinical outcomes and decreased costs for the payor, and improved quality of life and productivity for the member.
 
The OnTrak solution was developed by behavioral health experts with years of clinical experience. This experience has helped to form key areas of expertise that we believe sets our solution apart from other programs, including member engagement, working directly with the member treatment team and a more fully integrated treatment offering.
 
Our OnTrak solution includes the following components: identification of impactable members, member engagement, enrollment/referral, provider network, outpatient medical treatment, outpatient psychosocial treatment, care coaching, monitoring and reporting, and our proprietary web-based clinical information platform (eOnTrak).
 
We assist health plans to identify those members who incur significant costs and may be appropriate for enrollment into OnTrak. We then engage and enroll targeted members into our program through direct mailings and telephonic outreach, and referral through health plan sources. After enrollment, our contracted network of providers provide treatments utilizing integrated medical and psychosocial treatment modalities, including our proprietary OnTrak therapy modules for anxiety, depression and substance use disorders to help members develop improved coping skills and a recovery support network. Throughout the treatment process, our care coaches work directly with members to keep them engaged in treatment by proactively supporting members to enhance motivation, minimize lapses and enable lifestyle modifications consistent with the recovery goals. Periodically, we will provide outcomes reporting on clinical and financial metrics to our customers to demonstrate the extent of the program’s value.
 
Clinical and financial outcomes from the OnTrak solution have shown that OnTrak enrolled members achieve an average gross cost reduction of more than 54% for the year after enrollment compared to the 12 months prior to enrollment. In addition, to date, approximately 80% of members who have remained eligible have been retained in the program.
 
 3



OnTrak
 
Our proprietary OnTrak solution is designed to improve treatment outcomes and lower the utilization of medical and behavioral health plan services by high utilization and high risk enrollees. Our OnTrak solution includes medical and psychosocial interventions; a proprietary web based clinical information platform and database, psychosocial programs and integrated care coaching services.
 
Another important aspect of the Catasys solution is that the solution is flexible and can be altered in a modular way to enable us to partner with payors to meet their needs. As a service delivery model, the OnTrak solution can be modified to cover particular populations and provide for varying levels of service. In this way, OnTrak can work with payors to identify, engage and treat a broader spectrum of patients in a way that is consistent with payors’ business needs.
 
Our value proposition to our customers includes that the OnTrak solution is designed for the following benefits:
 

● | A specific program aimed at addressing high-cost conditions by improving patient health and thereby reducing overall healthcare costs can benefit health plans;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Increased worker productivity by reducing workplace absenteeism, compensation claims and job related injuries;
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Decreased emergency room and inpatient utilization;
--+----------------------------------------------------


● | Decreased readmission rates; and
--+---------------------------------


● | Healthcare cost savings (including medical, behavioral and pharmaceutical).
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Our Strategy
 
Our business strategy is to provide a quality integrated medical and behavioral program to help health plans treat and manage health plan members whose behavioral health conditions are exacerbating co-existing medical conditions resulting in increased in-patient medical costs. Our initial focus was members with substance use disorder, and we have expanded our solution into anxiety disorders and depression. 
 
Key elements of our business strategy include:
 

● | Demonstrating the potential for improved clinical outcomes and reduced cost associated with using our OnTrak solution with key managed care and other third-party payors;
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Educating third-party payors on the disproportionately high cost of their substance dependent population;
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Providing our OnTrak solution to third-party payors for reimbursement on a case rate, fee for service, or monthly fee basis; and
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


● | Generating outcomes data from our OnTrak solution to demonstrate cost reductions and utilization of this outcomes data to facilitate broader adoption.
--+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
As an early entrant into offering integrated medical and behavioral programs for substance dependence, we believe we will be well positioned to address increasing market demand. We believe our OnTrak solution will help fill the gap that exists today: a lack of programs that focus on smaller populations with disproportionately higher costs driven by behavioral health conditions that improve patient care while controlling overall treatment costs.
 
Our Operations
 
Healthcare Services
 
Our OnTrak solution combines innovative medical and psychosocial treatments with elements of traditional disease management, case management, and ongoing member support to help organizations treat and manage populations struggling with substance dependence, depression, and anxiety to improve their health and thereby decrease their overall health care costs.
 
 4



As of March 2, 2018, we have contracts with ten health plans, two of which have merged and are in the process of integrating operations. We are enrolling patients under nine of these contracts. 
 
We are currently marketing our OnTrak solution to managed care health plans on a case rate, monthly fee, or fee for service basis, which involves educating third party payors on the disproportionately high cost of their substance dependent population and demonstrating the potential for improved clinical outcomes and reduced cost associated with using our program. 
 
Competition
 
Healthcare Services
 
Our OnTrak solution to date has focused primarily on substance dependence, anxiety and depression, and is marketed to health plans and other insurance payers. While we believe our products and services are unique, we operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with other healthcare management service organizations, care management and disease management companies, including managed behavioral health organizations (MBHOs) that manage behavioral health benefits, perform utilization reviews, provide case management and patient coaching, and pay their network of providers for behavioral health services delivered. Most of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. We compete with companies such as AbleTo and Health Integrated that offer coaching, and in the case of Health Integrated, a product that addresses the costs of members with substance dependence and other behavioral health conditions.  There are several companies that seek to utilize digital approaches to treat behavioral health conditions or use data analytics and digital technologies to identify health plan members with behavior health conditions and try to match them to treatment providers.  Some of these companies also utilize care coaches or online therapists to enhance their digital models.  A small number of these have secured reimbursement for their products or services from health plans.  We believe these providers are serving a different segment of the market and do not provide an end-to-end integrated solution with financial outcomes.  We believe our product is the most comprehensive one to focus exclusively on engaging and treating high-cost members whose anxiety, depression, or substance use disorders are exacerbating co-existing medical conditions through our network of providers using specially designed treatment regimens.
 
In addition, managed care companies may seek to provide similar specialty healthcare services directly to their members, rather than by contracting with us for such services.  Behavioral health conditions, including substance dependence, are typically managed for insurance companies by internal divisions or third-parties (MBHOs) frequently under capitated arrangements.  Under such arrangements, MBHOs are paid a fixed monthly fee and must pay providers for provided services, which gives such entities an incentive to decrease cost and utilization of services by members.  We compete to differentiate our integrated program for high utilizing substance dependence, anxiety, and depression members, which seeks to increase treatment and impact the overall health care costs of the members, from the population utilization management programs that MBHOs offer to manage a health benefit.
 
We believe that our ability to offer customers an outcomes-based comprehensive and integrated solution, including the utilization of innovative medical and psychosocial treatments and engagement methodologies, and our network of treatment providers, will enable us to compete effectively.  However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter more effective competition in the future, which would limit our ability to maintain or increase our business.
 
Once we contract with a third-party payor, we implement our program in conjunction with the third-party payor and then commence outreach to eligible members to enroll them in our OnTrak solution. In this enrollment process, we compete against numerous other providers of behavioral health treatment programs, facilities and providers for those members that elect to receive treatment for their behavioral health conditions (see Treatment Programs below). We believe we provide members with a lower cost and more comprehensive solution, but members may choose to receive care from other providers. To the extent a member selects a different provider that is part of a health plan network of providers, the cost of such treatment may be paid in whole or in part by our health plan customer.
 
 5



Trademarks
 
We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. Our branded trade names on which we rely include the following:
 

● | OnTrak™; and
--+-------------


● | eOnTrak™.
--+----------

 
We require that, as a condition of their employment, employees assign to us their interests in inventions, original works of authorship, copyrights and similar intellectual property rights conceived or developed by them during their employment with us.
 
Financial Information about Segments
 
We manage and report our operations through one business segment: Healthcare Services. This segment includes the OnTrak solution marketed to health plans and other third party payors.
 
Employees
 
As of March 2, 2018, we employed 136 full-time employees. We are not a party to any labor agreements and none of our employees are represented by a labor union.
 
Corporate Information
 
We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on September 29, 2003. Our principal executive offices are located at 11601 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1100, Los Angeles, California 90025, and our telephone number is (310) 444-4300. 
 
Our corporate website address is www.catasys.com, the contents of which are not incorporated herein. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an internet site that contains our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other information regarding our company, at www.sec.gov. These reports and other information concerning our company may also be accessed at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this Annual Report. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual reference only.
 
 6



