Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


ITEM 1. | BUSINESS
------------+---------

Overview
 
We have developed a single-use medical device system (the “Pure-Vu system”), cleared by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), that is intended to connect to standard colonoscopes to help facilitate intraprocedural cleaning of a poorly prepared colon by irrigating or cleaning the colon and evacuating the irrigation fluid (water), feces and other bodily fluids and matter. The Pure-Vu system has been designed to integrate with standard colonoscopes to enable cleaning during the procedure while preserving standard procedural workflow and techniques. Our Pure-Vu system and the procedure to cleanse the colon in preparation for colonoscopy are not currently reimbursable through private or governmental third-party payors in any country, but we intend to seek reimbursement through private or governmental third-party payors in the future. We do not currently promote a particular prep regimen as this is left up to the discretion of the physician since our current indication does not reference any preparation protocol. We will look to expand the Pure-Vu system indication to allow us to actively promote minimal prep capabilities directly to patients. We plan to initiate a clinical trial in 2018 that should facilitate approval of expanded labeling in 2019. To date, as part of our limited pilot launch, we have focused on collecting clinical data on the use of the Pure-Vu system. We do not expect to generate significant revenue from product sales unless and until we expand our commercialization efforts.
 
Our business was spun out from the New Generation Technology (“NGT”) incubator based in Nazareth, Israel in 2011 to focus exclusively on the development of the Pure-Vu system. We initiated preclinical testing in 2011 and started clinical testing of the first prototype version of the Pure-Vu system in Europe in late 2012. In clinical studies performed in Europe and Israel from 2012 through the second quarter of 2017, the Pure-Vu system and earlier prototype versions have demonstrated effective cleaning in over 175 patients that followed a significantly reduced pre-procedural colonoscopy preparation regimen, as compared to current prep regimens.
 
Market Overview
 
Colonoscopies are one of the most frequently performed medical procedures with over 15 million colonoscopies performed in the U.S. every year and close to 30 million worldwide. In the U.S., approximately 90% of the 15 million colonoscopies are performed as out-patient procedures (13.5 million) at an ambulatory endoscopy center, or AEC, and/or hospital out-patient departments, or HOPD, and 10% as in-patient procedures (1.5 million) in hospitals. The veteran population represents approximately 250,000 colonoscopies performed annually. Approximately 60% of colonoscopies are performed to detect and prevent colorectal cancer, or CRC, which is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the U.S. with approximately 140,000 new cases diagnosed and 50,000 deaths every year. Over the past few decades, CRC has been demonstrated to be one of the most preventable cancers through the use of colonoscopies. The remaining 40% of colonoscopies are performed to help diagnose and treat other gastrointestinal, or GI, conditions including irritable bowel syndrome, or IBS, inflammatory bowel disease, or IBD, anemia and lower GI bleeding.
 
Despite the pervasiveness and effectiveness of colonoscopy, a key ongoing clinical challenge of the procedure is that patients are required to undergo a potent pre-procedure bowel preparation regimen to try to ensure that the colon is fully cleansed to enable clear visualization of the tissue. The regimens can be highly disruptive and uncomfortable for many patients. In fact, approximately 57% of patients cite not wanting to take the bowel preparation as the number one deterrent for the procedure. Further, it has been widely reported that approximately 23% of out-patients and it has been estimated that approximately 45% of in-patients present with inadequately prepped colons, resulting in a number of colonoscopies that yield poor diagnostic accuracy or failed colonoscopies that must be repeated. It has also been widely reported that patients requiring frequent colonoscopies, such as CRC survivors and other surveillance patients, account for approximately 21% of the out-patient colonoscopies performed annually in the U.S., and that patients with lower GI bleeding or poorly prepared colons represent approximately 45% of in-patient colonoscopies performed annually in the U.S. Another key problem is that approximately 35% of eligible patients are not current with their CRC screening in the U.S. based on current guidelines. One of the primary reasons patients fail to get a screening colonoscopy or to return for follow-up procedures is the unwillingness to undergo or dislike of the potent and unpleasant preparation required prior to the procedure.
 

4
-

 

Successful bowel preparation is one of the most important factors in delivering a thorough, high quality exam and is well documented to have a direct impact on the adenoma detection rate (ADR) (the rate of detecting pre-cancer anomalies in the colon tissue), which in turn predicts a decrease in CRC risk. The preparation regimen typically requires patients to be on a liquid diet for over 24 hours, drink up to four liters of a purgative, spend up to 12 hours prior to the exam periodically going to the bathroom to empty their bowels, and disrupting their daily activities, which could include missing work or other activities. The cleansing process is well known to be inconvenient and uncomfortable for many patients resulting in approximately twenty three percent (23%) of patients arriving for their colonoscopy inadequately cleansed. An inadequately prepared colon can impact the diagnostic accuracy of the procedure and can lead to procedures having to be repeated earlier than the medical guidelines advise or can lead to failed procedures especially in the in-patient setting. Rescheduling the procedure is inconvenient to the patient (and many patients fail to come for their follow-up), creates inefficiencies in the provider’s workflow, and increases the length of hospital stay for the in-patient, each of which results in increased healthcare costs.
 
Our Pure-Vu Solution 
 
To address this unmet need, we have developed our FDA-cleared Pure-Vu system, which readily integrates with existing colonoscopes to cleanse poorly prepped colons during the colonoscopy procedure. The Pure-Vu system has been cleared by the FDA to help facilitate intra-procedural cleaning of a poorly prepared colon by irrigating or cleaning the colon and evacuating the irrigation fluid (water), feces and other bodily fluids and matter. We believe that the technology may be useful in the future as a tool to help reduce user dependency on conventional pre-procedural bowel prep regimens.
 
Our system consists of a workstation controller and a single-use, disposable sleeve that fits over most standard-size commercial colonoscopes. Together with the colonoscope, the Pure-Vu system performs rapid, effective and efficient intra-procedural cleaning without compromising procedural workflow and techniques. The over-sleeve has an umbilical section that connects to a cartridge that mounts to the workstation and serves as the interface between the disposable over-sleeve and the workstation. The workstation, through a series of peristaltic pumps activated by foot pedals, delivers an irrigation medium of air and water that creates a pulsed vortex inside the colon to break up fecal matter while simultaneously evacuating the colon content into waste receptacles already used in a standard colonoscopy procedure. The proprietary evacuation system in the device has sensors built in that can detect the formation of a blockage and automatically clear it allowing the physician to remove significant debris from the patient. The Pure-Vu system has been clinically demonstrated to be capable of cleaning poorly prepared colons in minutes. We are building an extensive intellectual property portfolio designed to protect key aspects of the system, including the pulsed vortex irrigation and auto-purge functions.
 
The Pure-Vu System
 

In the out-patient setting, the Pure-Vu system could create the opportunity to improve patient satisfaction and enhance diagnostic quality. Additionally, in the in-patient hospital setting, the Pure-Vu system could create the opportunity to improve the time to prepare for and complete a successful colonoscopy.

5
-

 

Out-patient Opportunity: improving patient experience and reducing repeat procedures
 
The Pure-Vu system is currently cleared to help facilitate intra-procedural cleaning of a poorly prepared colon by irrigating or cleaning the colon and evacuating the irrigation fluid (water), feces and other bodily fluids and matter, e.g., blood. In this context, users are able to address visualization concerns and complete endoscopic examinations when patients are found to be poorly prepared by standard colon preparation methods. We believe that our technology may be useful in the future as a tool to help reduce user dependency on conventional pre-procedural bowel prep regimens, and we are gathering data and intend to seek FDA clearance or approval for expanded claims.
 
The largest commercial market opportunity presented by the Pure-Vu system in relation to these expanded claims is in the out-patient setting offering patients an alternative to the arduous experience of having to drink large volumes of purgatives that result in significant discomfort, multiple visits to the bathroom over a many-hour period and disruption of daily activities. Market research conducted by The Nova Group, which was sponsored by us, indicates that 83% of patients are willing to pay an out-of-pocket premium, depending on the cost, for this type of technology and the ability to follow a “less-prep” regimen. According to The Nova Group market research, 29% of patients indicated they were willing to consider paying an out-of-pocket cost of up to $350, despite believing such cost to be expensive, for the ability to follow a “less-prep” regimen, while 10% believed $350 to be an appropriate out-of-pocket price. Similarly, according to the same research, 58% of patients indicated they were willing to consider paying an out-of-pocket cost of up to $250, despite believing such cost to be expensive, for the ability to follow a “less-prep” regimen, while 20% believed $250 to be an appropriate out-of-pocket price. This research suggests that as the potential out-of-pocket cost of a “less-prep” regimen and examination is reduced, the percentage of patients willing to consider paying increases dramatically.
 
Physicians are also motivated to improve bowl preparation. Market research conducted by Healthcare Research & Analytics, which was sponsored by us, indicates, 99% of physicians understand ADR is influenced by bowl cleanliness and 68% believe ADR will be tied to reimbursement in the next three years. With increasing pressure on physician and facility reimbursement, most providers are incorporating ancillary services into their practices to supplement their revenue and increase profit. Incorporation of a “less-prep” regimen as an ancillary product into an out-patient GI practice is expected to provide an additional source of revenue and profit as well as help to differentiate the GI practice in an increasingly competitive marketplace. By offering a solution to those patients who either cannot tolerate the challenging preparation or desire a more tolerable prep, we believe the GI practice can increase their market share and improve patient satisfaction, a key quality metric being measured by payors. A “less-prep” regimen could also facilitate late afternoon and early evening procedures for those patients wishing to avoid disruption in their daily activities. Finally, with a “less-prep” regimen, the prep may no longer be as significant of a deterrent to receiving a colonoscopy, potentially increasing compliance to screening and ultimately increasing the early detection of CRC.
 
Based on published literature in several peer reviewed journals from 2010 to 2015 and surveys of physicians conducted in 2015, approximately 23% of patients can have an inadequate preparation, which may lead to repeat procedures earlier than the medical guidelines suggest and decrease the ADR negatively affecting the quality of the exam. If a physician has the ability to effectively cleanse the colon intra-procedurally, a “less-prep” regimen could provide the ability to turn a fair or poor preparation into an optimal preparation and achieve a high-quality colonoscopy. Further, increased cleanliness (which may be achieved through use of the Pure-Vu system), as measured by the Boston Bowel Preparation Score, or BBPS, the most commonly used method for evaluating the quality of bowel preparation, is associated with an increase of adenoma detection, which in turn predicts a decrease in CRC risk.
 

6
-

 


In-patient Opportunity: improving efficiencies and shortening time to complete a successful colonoscopy
 
In-patient colonoscopy is usually performed to diagnose the source of various gastrointestinal conditions such as lower GI bleeding or bowel pain. For an in-patient hospital stay, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, uses a prospective payment system, or PPS, based upon diagnostic related groups, or DRG, to pay for hospital services with the goal of encouraging providers to minimize their costs. The DRG assignment is influenced by a combination of factors such as a patient’s sex, diagnosis at the time of discharge and procedures performed. Based on patient specific information, all hospital expenses for their care during an inpatient stay are packaged and assigned to one of over 500 MS-DRGs. According to Decision Driver Analytics, a reimbursement consulting agency, when a colonoscopy is performed as the primary procedure (no other procedures or complicating diagnosis), DRGs 395, 394 or 393 would apply which pay between $3,861 (without complications or major comorbidities) and $9,421 (with major complications and comorbidities). The cost for just one night in the hospital averages $1,800, so reducing the length of stay can save the hospital significant expense.
 

7
-

 

An in-patient colonoscopy is more problematic than an out-patient procedure due primarily to poorer quality bowel prep which can lead to lower rates of successful completion of the procedure and a higher frequency of repeat procedures. In-patients are difficult to prep as exemplified by inadequate bowel prep rates, which have been reported in the literature as high as 45% for the in-patient setting. Managing these patients is a challenge often requiring significant healthcare provider resources to administer and monitor the prep. The poor bowel prep can be due to the patient’s condition as a more fragile patient population may be unable to tolerate the significant volume of fluid required, and the clear liquid diet required, to cleanse the colon. With these patients, a high volume of purgative can also lead to electrolyte imbalances. The Pure-Vu system is cleared by the FDA for use as an aid to facilitate cleansing in patients with poor bowel preparation. The impact of the Pure-Vu system on the duration of procedures has not been established. There is a need for a system that can shorten the time to successfully complete a colonoscopy by streamlining the process with effective and safe intra-procedural cleaning thus reducing healthcare costs.
 
Pre-Clinical and Clinical Data & Safety
 
In clinical studies performed in Europe and Israel, the Pure-Vu system and earlier prototype versions have demonstrated effective cleaning in over 175 patients receiving a reduced prep regimen. The first 83 patients used three different versions of the system. The prep regimen used in these patients varied from taking a 50% dose of the standard PEG based prep to as little as taking 20mg of over-the-counter Dulcolax® (bisocodyl). More recently, the commercial version of the Pure-Vu system was used in two multi-center clinical studies. The first study involved 48 patients and was completed in the second quarter of 2016. The second study was completed in June 2017 and involved 46 patients. Patients in these studies had a restricted diet for 18-24 hours and received a split dose of 20mg of over-the-counter Dulcolax® (bisocodyl). Patients did not take any liquid purgative traditionally prescribed for bowel preparation. The clinical data showing performance of the Pure-Vu system in these studies using the BBPS, is shown below. The clinical results from the 2016 study were presented at United European Gastroenterology Week (“UEGW”) in October 2016. The clinical results from the 2017 study were presented at the UEGW in October 2017, showing similar results, as shown below.
 

8
-

 


In addition, pre-clinical experience in a porcine animal model, which was used in the FDA submission, was also presented at Digestive Disease Week (“DDW”) in May 2016. In this study the animals were fasted from normal feed following the Day -2 morning meal. On the afternoon of Day -2, the animals received a standard three (3) liters of PEG-based colon preparation agent (Golytely®). This data is presented below.
 

9
-

 


We are planning to initiate post-market surveillance and clinical study programs that may involve registries, investigator sponsored studies and company sponsored studies to drive clinical and health economic data, to support product development, enhance our marketing efforts and facilitate new indications. The first of these studies was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2017 and will continue into 2018.
 
The Pure-Vu system is currently indicated to connect to standard colonoscopes to help facilitate intra-procedural cleaning of a poorly prepared colon by irrigating or cleaning the colon and evacuating the irrigation fluid (water), feces and other bodily fluids and matter. We do not currently promote a particular prep regimen as this is left up to the discretion of the physician since our current indication does not reference any preparation protocol. We will look to expand the Pure-Vu system indication to allow us to promote minimal prep capabilities directly to patients. We plan to initiate a clinical trial in 2018 that should facilitate approval of expanded labeling in 2019.
 
We received CE Mark approval in Europe in February 2018. We intend to establish relationships with strategic partners for Europe, Japan, China and other key markets outside the U.S. (“OUS”) to support the regulatory process and market entry. We anticipate entering OUS markets with our second-generation Pure-Vu system during the second half of 2019. We filed for and received special 510(k) clearance from the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2017 to adjust our labeling to simplify the process of removing the Pure-Vu system from a colonoscope and to support minor enhancements to the manufacturing of the system.
 
Intellectual Property 
 
Our IP position comprises a highly innovative portfolio covering technologies rooted in systems and methods for cleaning body cavities with or without the use of an endoscope. Currently we have three (3) issued U.S. patents, three (3) issued Japanese patents, one issued EU patent and 31 (11 in the U.S.) pending patent applications in various regions of the world with a focus on the U.S., EU and Japan. Our earliest patent application filing dates go back to October 2007. We have also recently received notice of allowance for Motus GI and for Pure-Vu trademarks from the USPTO. We are pursuing these marks in the EU as well.
 
Our issued patents cover:
 

● | one patent for an endoscopic device insertable into a body cavity and movable in a predetermined direction and method of moving the endoscopic device in a body cavity, which expires in October 2026; 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | three patents for system and methods for cleaning body cavities, which expire in the U.S. in 2031; 
● | and three patents for an apparatus and method for coupling between a colonoscope and add-on tubes, which expire in the U.S. in 2035. 


10
--

 

Our patent application portfolio focuses on cleaning body cavities in a safe and efficient manner, insertion and movement and steering of an endoscopic device within the body cavity in a predetermined direction, coordinated positioning of an endoscope with a suction device and cleaning systems with automatic self-purging features. Our applications cover critical aspects of our system that we believe are key to effectively and efficiently clean the colon or other cavities in the body. These areas include cleansing jet methodologies, sensing and control of evacuation to avoid clogging, designs for easy attachment to endoscopes and cleaning segments under water.
 
Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for Pure-Vu and to operate without infringing the proprietary right of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We strive to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patents, and trademarks as well as through the confidentiality provisions in our contracts. With respect to the Pure-Vu system, we endeavor to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and internationally on all patentable aspects of the system. We cannot be sure that the patents will be granted with respect to any patent applications we may own or license in the future, nor can we be sure that our existing patents or any patents we may own or license in the future will be useful in protecting our technology.
 
In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. For example, significant aspects of our proprietary technology platform are based on unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors and commercial partners. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of the invention assignment agreements, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third party. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.
 
We also plan to continue to seek trademark protection in the United States and outside of the United States where available and when appropriate. We intend to use these registered marks in connection with our research and development as well as our product candidates.
 
Our Formation
 
In connection with our formation in September 2016, we sold an aggregate of 1,650,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per shares (the “Common Stock”) for an aggregate of $82,500 ($0.05 per share).
The Share Exchange Transaction
 
Effective on December 1, 2016, Motus GI Medical Technologies Ltd., an Israeli Company (“Opco”), and the holders of all issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Opco (the “Opco Stockholders”), entered into a share exchange agreement (the “Share Exchange Agreement”) with us. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, as a condition of and contemporaneously with the initial closing (the “Initial Closing”) of the private placement offering of units we conducted from December 2016 to February 2017 (the “2017 Private Placement”), the Opco Stockholders sold to us, and we acquired, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Opco (the “Share Exchange Transaction”) and Opco became our direct wholly-owned subsidiary. Pursuant to the Share Exchange Transaction (i) the Opco Stockholders received an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of our Common Stock in exchange for all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Opco, (ii) the Convertible Notes (as defined below) and the Convertible Note Warrants (as defined below) were exchanged for our securities, as described below, and (iii) all of the issued and outstanding options to purchase or otherwise acquire shares of Opco capital stock that were outstanding and unexercised as of immediately prior to the Initial Closing were substituted for 125,730 options to acquire shares of our Common Stock pursuant to our 2016 Equity Incentive Plan at exercise prices ranging from $2.38 to $2.52 (see “Part III—Item 11—Executive Compensation—2016 Equity Incentive Plan”).

11
--

 

The Share Exchange Transaction was treated as a recapitalization of Opco for financial accounting purposes and the historical financial statements of Opco are our financial statements as a result of the Share Exchange Transaction.
 
2017 Private Placement and Exchange of Convertible Notes
 
In connection with the 2017 Private Placement we issued an aggregate of 3,080,671 units, at a purchase price of $5.00 per unit, with each unit (a “Unit”) consisting of (i) three-quarter (3/4) of a share of our Common Stock, and (ii) one-quarter (1/4) of a share of our convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 (the “Series A Convertible Preferred Stock”), for gross proceeds of approximately $15.4 million, comprised of an aggregate of 2,310,504 shares of our Common Stock and 770,168 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to investors in the 2017 Private Placement.
 
In addition, from June 2015 through November 2016, pursuant to the terms of a convertible note agreement, as amended (the “CNA”), Opco issued convertible notes (the “Convertible Notes”) in an aggregate amount of approximately $14.6 million (inclusive of accrued interest through December 22, 2016, the date of the Initial Closing) to certain investors, including related parties of us and Opco. As part of the 2017 Private Placement, at the Initial Closing, the holders of the Convertible Notes (the “Convertible Holders”) exchanged their Convertible Notes (the “Exchange of Convertible Notes”), together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon at a rate of 10% per annum, for Units of the 2017 Private Placement, at a conversion price of $4.50 per Unit. As a result, upon consummation of the Initial Closing, the Convertible Notes were exchanged for an aggregate of 3,243,768 Units representing (i) 2,432,808 shares of our Common Stock (inclusive of shares of our Common Stock resulting from the accrued and unpaid interest of the Convertible Notes through the date of the Initial Closing) and (ii) 810,960 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (inclusive of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock resulting from the accrued and unpaid interest of the Convertible Notes through the date of the Initial Closing).
 
Exchange of Convertible Note Warrants
 
In connection with, and pursuant to the terms of, the CNA, each Convertible Holder also received a seven (7) year warrant (the “Convertible Note Warrants”) to purchase preferred A shares of Opco (the “Preferred A Shares of Opco”), nominal value NIS 0.01 per share, with an exercise price per share of $1.00 (the “Convertible Note Warrant Exercise Price”). Each Convertible Note Warrant entitled the holder to purchase that number of shares of Preferred A Shares of Opco equal to thirty-three percent (33%) of the principal amount of the Convertible Note in connection with which it was issued. Convertible Note Warrants to purchase an aggregate 4,536,188 shares of Preferred A Shares of Opco with an exercise price of $1.00 were issued in connection with the CNA. At the Initial Closing, the holders of the Convertible Note Warrants exchanged their Convertible Note Warrants for five (5) year warrants (the “Exchange Warrants”) to purchase an aggregate 907,237 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, such amount being equal to thirty-three percent (33%) of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes divided by $5.00.
Initial Public Offering
 
On February 16, 2018, we completed our initial public offering of 3,500,000 shares of our Common Stock at a public offering price of $5.00 per share, with gross proceeds of $17.5 million (the “IPO”). Simultaneously with the closing of our IPO, all 1,581,128 previously outstanding shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were converted, on a one-to-one basis, into an aggregate of 1,581,128 shares of our Common Stock. No shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding as a result of such conversion. Additionally, at the closing of our IPO, we issued warrants to certain of our former Series A Convertible Preferred Stock holders, pursuant to an amendment to our registration rights agreement entered into with the investors in our 2017 Private Placement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”) and an amendment to our Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Certificate of Designation”), to purchase 1,095,682 shares of our Common Stock (the “Ten Percent Warrants”). The Ten Percent Warrants are exercisable for our Common Stock at an exercise price of $5.00. The Ten Percent Warrants are exercisable any time on or after the 180 day anniversary of the completion of our IPO, have a five year term, and provide for cashless exercise. Certain related parties received Ten Percent Warrants, see “Part III—Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Ten Percent Warrants – Related Party Participation.” Certain related parties purchased shares of our Common Stock in our IPO, see “Part III—Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Participation in Initial Public Offering.”

12
--

 

On March 12, 2018, we completed the sale of an additional 56,000 shares of our Common Stock at a price of $5.00 per share, pursuant to a partial exercise of the underwriters 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 525,000 shares of our Common Stock in connection with the IPO (the “Partial IPO Over-Allotment Exercise”), with gross proceeds of $280,000.
 
Competition
 
We do not believe that there are currently any direct competitors in the market, nor any known competing medical device under development, using similar technology to our technology. Currently the major colonoscope manufacturers (i.e., Olympus, Pentax, Fuji) sell an irrigation pump that can pump fluid through the working channel of a colonoscope. The only intra-procedural device in the market, Cantel Medical’s Jet Prep, and another product in development similar to Cantel Medical’s Jet Prep, Medjet Ltd.’s MedJet, go through the working channel of a scope and are used mostly for spot cleaning a small amount of debris and do not have the capability to fully clean the colon of large amounts of fecal matter. The Jet Prep and MedJet products also require the physician to remove it from the working channel during the procedure if they need to remove polyps or take a biopsy, impacting the workflow of the procedure. The competitive products mentioned are not currently reimbursed by private or government payors. There are over ten different preparation regimens used prior to colonoscopy today. Some are prescription medications and others are over-the-counter. Typically, the over-the-counter regimens are not indicated for colonoscopy prep but for issues of motility, such as constipation, but are still widely prescribed by physicians for colonoscopy prep. Depending on the insurance a patient has, the prescription prep may be covered in part but many of them require the patient to pay out-of-pocket.
 
The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. We have indirect competitors in a number of jurisdictions, many of which have substantially greater name recognition, commercial infrastructures and financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. Currently, the colonoscopy market is dominated by Olympus, who controls a majority of the market, with Pentax and FujiFilm taking most of the rest of the U.S. colonoscope market. Boston Scientific, Medtronic US Endoscopy, Medivators and other smaller players sell ancillary devices and accessories into the marketplace as well. These established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel devices that could make our Pure-Vu system obsolete or uneconomical. There are also capsule endoscopy systems such as the PillCamTM from Medtronic and the Endocapsule 10 from Olympus, These systems, however, require at least the same level of prep as conventional colonoscopies, cannot remove polyps, and therefore, cannot be used to obtain biopsies to detect cancer, so may be less useful for colonoscopy as compared to visualization of the small bowel. Another visualization technique is the virtual colonoscopy, where a radiologist uses a CT scan to obtain 2D and 3D images of the colon. Virtual colonoscopies may require the same level of prep as conventional colonoscopies and if a polyp or abnormality is detected, the patient may still need to undergo a colonoscopy. Other screening tests for colon cancer specifically include fecal occult blood tests and DNA stool tests such as the Cologuard test from Exact Sciences. However, Cologuard is not a replacement for diagnostic colonoscopies or surveillance colonoscopies in high risk individuals and has a lower specificity than standard colonoscopies. While none of these testing alternatives may ever fully replace the colonoscopy, over time, they may take market share away from conventional colonoscopies for specific purposes and may lower the potential market opportunity for us.
 
Any new product that competes with an approved product may need to demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, cost, convenience, tolerability and safety to be commercially successful. Other competitive factors, including new competitive entrants, could force us to lower prices or could result in reduced sales. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to the Pure-Vu system. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer.
 

13
--

Research and Development
 
We incurred expenses of approximately $4.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 for research and development activities. These expenses include cash and non-cash expenses relating to the development of our development and clinical programs for the Pure-Vu system. We have research and development capabilities in electrical and mechanical engineering with laboratories in our facility in Israel for development and prototyping, and electronics design and testing. We also use consultants and third party design houses to complement our internal capabilities.
 
We have received, and may receive in the future, grants from the Government of the State of Israel through the Israel Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry (the “IIA”) (formerly known as the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy and Industry (the “OCS”)), for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures pursuant to the Encouragement of Research, Development and Technological Innovation in the Industry Law 5744-1984 (formerly known as the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 5744-1984), referred to as the Research Law, and related regulations.
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had received grants from the IIA in the aggregate amount of $1.33 million, and had a contingent obligation to the IIA up to an aggregate amount of approximately $1.37 million. As of December 31, 2017, we paid a minimal amount to the IIA. We may apply for additional IIA grants in the future. However, as the funds available for IIA grants out of the annual budget of the State of Israel have been reduced in the past and may be further reduced in the future, we cannot predict whether we will be entitled to any future grants, or the amounts of any such grants.
 
In exchange for these grants, we are required to pay royalties to the IIA of 3% to 3.5% from our revenues on sales of products and services based on technology developed using IIA grants, up to an aggregate of 100% (which may be increased under certain circumstances) of the U.S. dollar-linked value of the grant, plus interest at the rate of 12-month LIBOR.
 
The terms of the Israeli government participation also require that products developed with IIA grants be manufactured in Israel and that the technology developed thereunder may not be transferred outside of Israel (including by way of certain licenses), unless prior approval is received from the IIA, which we intend to apply for but may not be granted. Even if such approval is granted, the transfer outside of Israel of manufacturing which is connected with the IIA-funded know-how may result in increased royalties (up to three times the aggregate amount of the IIA grants plus interest thereon), as well as in a higher royalty repayment rate. In addition, the transfer outside of Israel of IIA-funded know-how may trigger additional payments to the IIA (up to six times the aggregate amount of the IIA grants plus interest thereon). Even following the full repayment of any IIA grants, we must nevertheless continue to comply with the requirements of the Research Law. The foregoing restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any IIA-funded product or technology outside of Israel.
 
If we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research Law, or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and, in certain circumstances, may be subject to criminal charges.
 
A significant amendment to the Research Law entered into effect on January 1, 2016 (the “Amendment”), under which the IIA, a statutory government corporation, was established, which replaced the OCS. Under the Amendment, the IIA is authorized to establish rules concerning the ownership and exploitation of IIA/OCS-funded know-how (including with respect to restrictions on transfer of manufacturing activities and IIA-funded know-how outside of Israel), which may differ from the restrictive laws, regulations and guidelines as currently in effect (and which shall remain in effect until such rules have been established by the IIA). Recently published rules of the IIA have generally adopted the principal provisions and restrictions specified in the Research Law prior to the Amendment. It is anticipated that additional rules will be published by the IIA and we cannot predict or estimate the changes (if any) that may be made to this legislation (including with respect to the acquisition of an IIA-funded entity or the transfer of manufacturing or ownership of IIA-funded technology outside of Israel).
 
For additional information, see “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel.”
 

14
--

Manufacturing and Supply
 
We have established relationships with research facilities, contract manufacturing organizations, or CMO’s, and our collaborators to manufacture and supply our product for our limited pilot launch and for commercialization. Currently, the workstation component of our Pure-Vu system is manufactured by Sanmina Corporation at their facilities in Israel. We may enter into a formal supply agreement for the manufacture of the workstation component of our Pure-Vu system as we continue to establish higher volume capabilities and our commercialization efforts grow. The disposable portion of our Pure-Vu system is manufactured by Polyzen, Inc., at their facilities in North Carolina, U.S., pursuant to a supply agreement we entered into with Polyzen, Inc. in September 2017. These manufacturing suppliers have extensive experience in medical devices and dealing with regulatory bodies. These suppliers have ISO 13485 approved quality systems. We have an agreement in place with a third party logistics provider in the U.S. who is ISO 13485 certified and specializes in medical devices and equipment. They will provide warehousing, shipping and back office support to meet our commercial needs.
 
For additional information, see “Part I—Item 1—Business—Research and Development” above, and “Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel.”
 
U.S. Market Entry Strategy
 
We have initiated a limited pilot launch in the U.S. market. Initial evaluation cases have been performed at eight centers showing cleansing capabilities similar to our clinical trial experience. This pilot phase is expected to run through 2018 with the primary objectives of expanding our clinical evidence, developing a practice integration model and creating key reference centers in both the AEC and hospital in-patient settings. We intend to work with the initial accounts to perform clinical studies to gather data for seeking expanded indications for use (such as from the FDA) and to optimize the prep for various populations including patients that have problems tolerating the prep and in-patients. For example, we expect to initiate post-market in-patient studies in the first half of 2018 to examine the ability to improve outcomes and address lower GI bleeds using the Pure-Vu system, and expect results for these trials in the fourth quarter of 2018 and second quarter of 2019, respectively. We also expect to initiate an in-patient study for the veteran population, and expect results from this trial in the second half of 2019. For out-patients, we expect to initiate trials to support reimbursement later this year with results from these trials anticipated in the second half of 2019.
 
We are working with a third party logistics provider specializing in medical devices to provide front and back office support to successfully fulfill customer orders. Additionally our commercial organization is putting in place the infrastructure to track account progress and help provide accurate forecasting for operations. We anticipate the sales cycle to be in the range of six to twelve months. During our limited pilot market entry, we will refine our commercialization strategy and tactics prior to our full market launch which is expected in 2019. Our full market launch will focus on launching our second generation Pure-Vu system platform (lower cost of goods, added features, and additional size for “slim” scopes), growing the top line revenues, scaling the commercial organization and expanding our clinical indications for use. We expect to develop strategic relationships to pursue OUS marketing opportunities and to initiate sales in the EU in 2019 and Japan, China and other Asian markets in 2020.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2017, we had 39 full time employees. All of our employees are engaged in administration, finance, clinical, R&D, engineering, regulatory or sales and marketing functions. We believe our relations with our employees are good. We anticipate that the number of employees will grow as we scale our commercial capabilities. In addition, we utilize and will continue to utilize consultants, clinical research organizations and third parties to perform our pre-clinical studies, clinical studies, manufacturing and regulatory functions.
 
Under Israeli law, we and our employees in Israel are subject to Israeli protective labor provisions, including the length of the workday, minimum wages for employees, annual leave, sick pay, determination of severance pay and advance notice of termination of employment, as well as procedures for hiring and dismissing employees and equal opportunity and anti-discrimination laws. While none of our employees in Israel is party to any collective bargaining agreements, orders issued by the Israeli Ministry of Economy and Industry may make certain industry-wide collective bargaining agreements applicable to us. These agreements affect matters such as the length of the workday and week, recuperation pay, travel expenses and pension rights. We have never experienced labor-related work stoppages and believe that our relationships with our employees are a significant part of our operations and that we maintain a good and positive relationship with our employees.
 

15
--

 

Israeli law generally requires the payment of severance compensation by employers upon the retirement, death or dismissal of an employee. We fund our ongoing Israeli severance obligations by making monthly payments to insurance policies. All of our current employees in Israel have agreed that upon termination of their employment, they will be entitled to receive only the amounts accrued in the insurance policies with respect to severance pay.
 
Furthermore, Israeli employees and employers are required to pay predetermined sums to the National Insurance Institute, which is similar to the U.S. Social Security Administration. These amounts also include payments for national health insurance.
 
Regulatory Matters
 
Government Regulation
 
Our business is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of subjective interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change, or new laws may be enacted.
 
Both federal and state governmental agencies continue to subject the healthcare industry to intense regulatory scrutiny, including heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. We believe that we have structured our business operations and relationships with our customers to comply with all applicable legal requirements. However, it is possible that governmental entities or other third parties could interpret these laws differently and assert otherwise. We discuss below the statutes and regulations that are most relevant to our business.
 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulation of medical devices.
 
The FDCA and FDA regulations establish a comprehensive system for the regulation of medical devices intended for human use. Our products include medical devices that are subject to these, as well as other federal, state, local and foreign, laws and regulations. The FDA is responsible for enforcing the laws and regulations governing medical devices in the United States.
 
The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, Class II, or Class III) depending on their level of risk and the types of controls that are necessary to ensure device safety and effectiveness. The class assignment is a factor in determining the type of premarketing submission or application, if any, that will be required before marketing in the United States.
 

● | Class I devices present a low risk and are not life-sustaining or life-supporting. The majority of Class I devices are subject only to “general controls” (e.g., prohibition against adulteration and misbranding, registration and listing, good manufacturing practices, labeling, and adverse event reporting. General controls are baseline requirements that apply to all classes of medical devices.) 
--+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Class II devices present a moderate risk and are devices for which general controls alone are not sufficient to provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Devices in Class II are subject to both general controls and “special controls” (e.g., special labeling, compliance with performance standards, and post market surveillance. Unless exempted, Class II devices typically require FDA clearance before marketing, through the premarket notification (510(k)) process.) 
● | Class III devices present the highest risk. These devices generally are life-sustaining, life-supporting, or for a use that is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, or present a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury. Class III devices are devices for which general controls, by themselves, are insufficient and for which there is insufficient information to determine that application of special controls would provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Class III devices are subject to general controls and typically require FDA approval of a premarket approval (“PMA”) application before marketing. 


16
--

 

Unless it is exempt from premarket review requirements, a medical device must receive marketing authorization from the FDA prior to being commercially marketed, distributed or sold in the United States. The most common pathways for obtaining marketing authorization are 510(k) clearance and PMA.
 
510(k) pathway
 
The 510(k) review process compares a new device to a legally marketed device. Through the 510(k) process, the FDA determines whether a new medical device is “substantially equivalent” to a legally marketed device (i.e., predicate device) that is not subject to PMA requirements. “Substantial equivalence” means that the proposed device has the same intended use as the predicate device, and the same or similar technological characteristics, or if there are differences in technological characteristics, the differences do not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness as compared to the predicate, and the information submitted in the 510(k) demonstrates that the proposed device is as safe and effective as the predicate device.
 
To obtain 510(k) clearance, a company must submit a 510(k) application containing sufficient information and data to demonstrate that its proposed device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device. These data generally include non-clinical performance testing (e.g., software validation, animal testing electrical safety testing), but may also include clinical data. Typically, it takes three to twelve months for the FDA to complete its review of a 510(k) submission; however, it can take significantly longer and clearance is never assured. During its review of a 510(k), the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, which may significantly prolong the review process. After completing its review of a 510(k), the FDA may issue an order, in the form of a letter, that finds the device to be either (i) substantially equivalent and states that the device can be marketed in the United States, or (ii) not substantially equivalent and states that device cannot be marketed in the United States. Depending upon the reasons for the not substantially equivalent finding, the device may need to be approved through the PMA pathway (discussed below) prior to commercialization.
 
After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, including significant modifications to any of our products or procedures, requires submission and clearance of a new 510(k) or approval of a PMA. The FDA relies on each manufacturer to make and document this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. Modifications meeting certain conditions may be candidates for a streamlined FDA review known as Special 510(k) review, which the FDA intends to process within 30 days of receipt. If a device modification requires the submission of a 510(k), but the modification does not affect the intended use of the device or alter the fundamental technology of the device, then summary information that results from the design control process associated with the cleared device can serve as the basis for clearing the application. A Special 510(k) allows a manufacturer to declare conformance to design controls without providing new data. When a modification involves a change in material, the nature of the “new” material will determine whether a traditional or Special 510(k) is necessary. An Abbreviated 510(k) is another type of 510(k) that is intended to streamline the review of data through the reliance on one or more FDA-recognized consensus standards, special controls established by regulation, or FDA guidance documents. In most cases, an Abbreviated 510(k) includes one or more declarations of conformity to an FDA-recognized consensus standard. We may also make minor product enhancements that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearances. If the FDA disagrees with our determination regarding whether a new 510(k) clearance was required for these modifications, we may need to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device. The FDA may also subject us to other enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning letter or untitled letter to us, seizing our products, imposing civil penalties, or initiating criminal prosecution.
 

17
--

 

Premarket approval pathway
 
Unlike the comparative standard of the 510(k) pathway, the PMA approval process requires an independent demonstration of the safety and effectiveness of a device. PMA is the most stringent type of device marketing application required by the FDA. PMA approval is based on a determination by the FDA that the PMA contains sufficient valid scientific evidence to ensure that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s). A PMA application generally includes extensive information about the device including the results of clinical testing conducted on the device and a detailed description of the manufacturing process.
 
After a PMA application is accepted for review, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. FDA regulations provide 180 days to review the PMA and make a determination; however, in reality, the review time is normally longer (e.g., 1-3 years). During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the data supporting the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to whether the data provide a reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, the FDA generally will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with QSR, which imposes comprehensive development, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements for the design and manufacturing of a medical device.
 
Based on its review, the FDA may (i) issue an order approving the PMA, (ii) issue a letter stating the PMA is “approvable” (e.g., minor additional information is needed), (iii) issue a letter stating the PMA is “not approvable,” or (iv) issue an order denying PMA. A company may not market a device subject to PMA review until the FDA issues an order approving the PMA. As part of a PMA approval, the FDA may impose post-approval conditions intended to ensure the continued safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution, and requiring the collection of additional clinical data. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in materially adverse enforcement action, including withdrawal of the approval.
 
Most modifications to a PMA approved device, including changes to the design, labeling, or manufacturing process, require prior approval before being implemented. Prior approval is obtained through submission of a PMA supplement. The type of information required to support a PMA supplement and the FDA’s time for review of a PMA supplement vary depending on the nature of the modification.
 
Clinical trials
 
Clinical trials of medical devices in the United States are governed by the FDA’s Investigational Device Exemption (“IDE”) regulation. This regulation places significant responsibility on the sponsor of the clinical study including, but not limited to, choosing qualified investigators, monitoring the trial, submitting required reports, maintaining required records, and assuring investigators obtain informed consent, comply with the study protocol, control the disposition of the investigational device, submit required reports, etc.
 
Clinical trials of significant risk devices (e.g., implants, devices used in supporting or sustaining human life, devices of substantial importance in diagnosing, curing, mitigating or treating disease or otherwise preventing impairment of human health) require FDA and Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) approval prior to starting the trial. FDA approval is obtained through submission of an IDE application. Clinical trials of non-significant risk (“NSR”), devices (i.e., devices that do not meet the regulatory definition of a significant risk device) only require IRB approval before starting. The clinical trial sponsor is responsible for making the initial determination of whether a clinical study is significant risk or NSR; however, a reviewing IRB and/or FDA may review this decision and disagree with the determination.
 
An IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as performance data, animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to evaluate the device in humans and that the clinical study protocol is scientifically sound. There is no assurance that submission of an IDE will result in the ability to commence clinical trials. Additionally, after a trial begins, the FDA may place it on hold or terminate it if, among other reasons, it concludes that the clinical subjects are exposed to an unacceptable health risk.
 

18
--

 

As noted above, the FDA may require a company to collect clinical data on a device in the post-market setting.
 
The collection of such data may be required as a condition of PMA approval. The FDA also has the authority to order, via a letter, a post-market surveillance study for certain devices at any time after they have been cleared or approved.
 
Pervasive and continuing FDA regulation
 
After a device is placed on the market, regardless of its classification or premarket pathway, numerous additional FDA requirements generally apply. These include, but are not limited to:
 

● | Establishment registration and device listing requirements; 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of finished devices; 
● | Labeling requirements, which mandate the inclusion of certain content in device labels and labeling, and generally require the label and package of medical devices to include a unique device identifier (“UDI”), and which also prohibit the promotion of products for uncleared or unapproved, i.e., “off-label,” uses; 
● | Medical Device Reporting (“MDR”) regulation, which requires that manufacturers and importers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and 
● | Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers and importers report to the FDA recalls (i.e., corrections or removals) if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health; manufacturers and importers must keep records of recalls that they determine to be not reportable. 

 
The FDA enforces these requirements by inspection and market surveillance. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include, but is not limited to, the following sanctions:
 

● | Untitled letters or warning letters; 
--+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | Fines, injunctions and civil penalties; 
● | Recall or seizure of our products; 
● | Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 
● | Refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; 
● | Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and 
● | Criminal prosecution. 

 
We are subject to unannounced device inspections by the FDA, as well as other regulatory agencies overseeing the implementation of and compliance with applicable state public health regulations. These inspections may include our suppliers’ facilities.
 

19
--

International
 
International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. In order to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive safety and quality regulations in other countries. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ. The European Union/European Economic Area (the “EU/EEA”), requires a CE conformity mark in order to market medical devices. Many other countries, such as Australia, India, New Zealand, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, accept CE or FDA clearance or approval, although others, such as Brazil, Canada and Japan require separate regulatory filings.
 
In the EU and the EEA, devices are required to comply with the essential requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directive. Compliance with these requirements would entitle us to affix the CE conformity mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be commercialized in the EU and EEA. To demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE conformity mark we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. Except for low risk medical devices (Class I), where the manufacturer can issue a CE Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body, which is an organization accredited at the European Commission to conduct conformity assessments. The Notified Body would typically audit and examine the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of our devices before issuing a certification demonstrating compliance with the essential requirements. Based on this certification we can draw up a CE Declaration of Conformity which allows us to affix the CE Mark to our products.
 
Further, the advertising and promotion of our products in the EU and the EEA is subject to the laws of individual EU and EEA Member States implementing the EU Medical Devices Directive, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EU and EEA Member State laws governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. These laws may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals.
 
Other Regulatory Matters
 
Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are also subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in addition to the FDA, including, in the United States, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and state and local governments. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair completion laws.
 
The distribution of medical device products is subject to additional requirements and regulations, including extensive record-keeping, licensing, storage and security requirements intended to prevent the unauthorized sale of medical device products.
 
Third-Party Payor Coverage and Reimbursement
 
Our Pure-Vu system and the procedure to cleanse the colon in preparation for colonoscopy are not currently reimbursable through private or governmental third-party payors in any country. Significant uncertainty exists as to whether coverage and reimbursement of the Pure-Vu system will develop; but we intend to seek reimbursement through private or governmental third-party payors in the future. In both the United States and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize the Pure-Vu system successfully, and to attract commercialization partners for the Pure-Vu system, depends in part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including, in the United States, governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers. Medicare is a federally funded program managed by the CMS, through local contractors that administer coverage and reimbursement for certain healthcare items and services furnished to the elderly and disabled. Medicaid is an insurance program for certain categories of patients whose income and assets fall below state defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured that is both federally and state funded and managed by each state. The federal government sets general guidelines for Medicaid and each state creates specific regulations or other guidelines that govern its individual program. Each payor, whether governmental or private, has its own process and standards for determining whether it will cover and reimburse a procedure or particular product. Private payors often rely on the lead of the governmental payors in rendering coverage and reimbursement determinations. Therefore, achieving favorable CMS coverage and reimbursement is usually a significant gating issue for successful introduction of a new product. The competitive position of the Pure-Vu system will depend, in part, upon the extent of coverage and adequate reimbursement for such product and for the procedures in which such product is used. Prices at which we or our customers seek reimbursement for the Pure-Vu system can be subject to challenge, reduction or denial by the government and other payors.
 

20
--

 

In the event we do receive approval for third-party or government reimbursement for our product, the marketability of such product may suffer if the government and commercial third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. An emphasis on cost containment measures in the United States has increased and we expect it will continue. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
 
State and federal healthcare reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding and otherwise affect the prices we may obtain for any of our product candidates for which we may obtain regulatory approval or the frequency with which any such product candidate is prescribed or used.
 
In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a medical device must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing medical device pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states and parallel distribution, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. In some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical study or other studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of any of our product candidates to other available therapies in order to obtain or maintain reimbursement or pricing approval. Historically, products launched in the European Union do not follow price structures of the United States and generally tend to be significantly lower. Publication of discounts by third-party payors or authorities may lead to further pressure on the prices or reimbursement levels within the country of publication and other countries. If pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels or if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, our revenues from sales by us or our strategic partners and the potential profitability of any of our product candidates in those countries would be negatively affected.
 
Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements
 
Healthcare providers, physicians, and third party payors will play a primary role in the recommendation and use of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third party payors, healthcare providers and physicians may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any device for which we obtain marketing approval. In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the CMS, other divisions of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the United States Department of Justice and individual United States Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. The applicable laws and regulations include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”).

21
--


● | The Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”) makes it illegal for any person, including a device manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf), to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer or pay any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, that is intended to induce or reward referrals, including the purchase, recommendation, or order of a particular device, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violations of this law are punishable by up to five years in prison, criminal fines, administrative civil money penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In addition, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. 
--+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | The Federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities (including manufacturers) for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal healthcare program or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $10,957 and $21,916 for each separate false claim and the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Conduct that violates the False Claims Act also may implicate various federal criminal statutes. The government may deem manufacturers to have “caused” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. Claims which include items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute also are deemed false or fraudulent claims for purposes of the False Claims Act. Our future marketing and activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products and other information affecting federal, state and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our product and any future product candidates, are subject to scrutiny under this law. 


● | HIPAA which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”) and its implementing regulations, also imposes certain obligations, including contractual terms and technical safeguards, with respect to maintaining the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. 
--+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● | HITECH also created new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. 
● | The Federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act within the Affordable Care Act, and its implementing regulations, which requires that certain manufacturers of devices and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and 
● | Analogous state and foreign fraud and abuse laws and regulations, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales and marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts. Such laws are generally broad and are enforced by various state agencies and private actions. 

 
In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, which are applicable to “business associates”—independent contractors or agents of HIPAA covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity.
 

22
--

 

Current and future legislation
 
In the United States and foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. We expect that current laws, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we, or any collaborators, may receive for any approved products.
 
With the new Administration and Congress, there will likely be additional administrative or legislative changes, including modification, repeal, or replacement of all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act, which may impact reimbursement for medical devices. On January 20, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Affordable Care Act to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Congress has attempted several times to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, yet to date no complete repeal has occurred. On October 13, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order terminating the cost-sharing subsidies that reimburse insurers under the Affordable Care Act. Several state Attorneys General filed suit to stop the administration from terminating the subsidies, but their request for a restraining order was denied by a federal judge in California on October 25, 2017. Litigation and legislation over the Affordable Care Act are likely to continue, with unpredictable and uncertain results.
 
Additional laws and regulations governing international operations 
 
If we further expand our operations outside of the United States, we must dedicate additional resources to comply with numerous laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.
 
Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical trials and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions.
 
Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. If we expand our presence outside of the United States, it will require us to dedicate additional resources to comply with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs.
 
The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and suspension or debarment from government contracting. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA’s accounting provisions.
 

23
--

 

Post-Marketing Regulations
 
Following clearance or approval of a new product, a company and the product are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory authorities, including, among other things, monitoring and recordkeeping activities, reporting to applicable regulatory authorities of adverse experiences with the product, providing the regulatory authorities with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, and complying with promotion and advertising requirements, which include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, restrictions on promoting for uses or in patient populations not described in the product’s approved labeling (known as “off-label use”), limitations on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and requirements for promotional activities involving the internet. Although physicians may prescribe legally available products for off-label uses, manufacturers may not market or promote such off-label uses. Modifications or enhancements to the products or labeling or changes of site of manufacture are often subject to the approval of the FDA and other regulators, which may or may not be received or may result in a lengthy review process.
 
Implications of Being an Emerging Growth Company
 
We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (ii) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. We intend to take advantage of these reporting exemptions described above until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Under the JOBS Act, “emerging growth companies” can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.”
Corporate and Available Information
 
We are a Delaware corporation formed in September 2016 under the name Eight-Ten Merger Corp. In November 2016, we changed our name to Motus GI Holdings, Inc. We are the parent company of Motus GI Medical Technologies Ltd., an Israeli corporation, and Motus GI, Inc. a Delaware corporation.
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 1301 East Broward Boulevard, 3rd Floor, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301. Our web address is www.motusgi.com. Our website and the information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.
 
We will make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the Investors section of our internet website. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Rooms at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D. C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov.
 
“Motus GI,” “Pure-Vu,” and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks or trade names appearing herein are the property of Motus GI Holdings, Inc. Some trademarks referred to in this report are referred to without the ® and ™ symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. We do not intend the use or display of other companies’ trademarks and trade names to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies.
 

24
--

