Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:


Item 1. | Business

Introductory Note
The following describes the business of Cannae Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Except where otherwise noted, all references to “we,” “us,” “our,” "Cannae", "Cannae Holdings", "the Company," or “CNNE” are to Cannae Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, taken together.
Separation from Fidelity National Financial
On November 17, 2017, Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (“FNF”) redeemed each outstanding share of its FNFV Group common stock, par value $0.0001, for one share of common stock, par value $0.0001, of a newly formed entity, Cannae Holdings, Inc., with cash in lieu of fractional shares (the "Split-Off"). In conjunction with the Split-Off, FNF contributed to us its majority and minority equity investment stakes in a number of entities, including American Blue Ribbon Holdings, LLC ("ABRH"), Ceridian Holding, LLC ("Ceridian"), T-System Holdings, LLC ("T-System"), and various other controlled portfolio companies and other minority equity investments. We filed our registration statement on Form S-4 describing the Split-Off with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), which was declared effective by the SEC on October 19, 2017 (the “Registration Statement”). On November 20, 2017, Cannae common stock began “regular-way” trading on The New York Stock Exchange under the “CNNE” stock symbol. 
Description of Business
We are a holding company engaged in actively managing and operating a group of companies and investments with a net asset value of approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017. Our business consists of managing and operating certain majority-owned subsidiaries, as well as making additional majority and minority equity portfolio investments in businesses, in order to achieve superior financial performance and maximize the value of these assets. 
As of December 31, 2017, we had the following reportable segments:
Restaurant Group.  This segment consists of the operations of ABRH, in which we have a 55% ownership interest. ABRH was established in Denver, Colorado in 2009 and is now headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee. ABRH operates more than 550 company and franchise family and casual dining restaurants in 40 states and Guam under the O'Charley's, Ninety Nine Restaurants & Pub, Village Inn, and Bakers Square restaurant and food service concepts, and the Legendary Baking bakery operation.
Ceridian.  This segment consists of our 33% ownership interest in Ceridian. Ceridian, through its operating subsidiary Ceridian HCM, Inc. ("Ceridian HCM"), is a global human capital management ("HCM") company that offers a broad range of services and software designed to help employers more effectively manage employment processes, such as payroll, payroll related tax filing, human resource information systems, employee self-service, time and labor management, employee assistance and work-life programs, and recruitment and applicant screening. Ceridian HCM's cloud offering, Dayforce, is our flagship cloud HCM platform that meets HCM needs with one employee record and one user experience throughout the application. Dayforce enables organizations to process payroll, maintain human resources records, manage benefits enrollment, schedule staff, and find and hire personnel, while monitoring compliance throughout the employee life cycle. Ceridian is a founder-led organization, and the culture combines the agility and innovation of a start-up with a history of deep domain and operational expertise. We account for our investment in Ceridian under the equity method of accounting and therefore its results of operations do not consolidate into ours. 
T-System. This segment consists of the operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, T-System. T-System is a provider of clinical documentation and coding solutions to hospital-based and free-standing emergency departments and urgent care facilities. T-System organizes itself into two businesses. The Clinical Documentation business offers software solutions providing clinical staff with full workflow operations that drive documentation completeness and revenue optimization to more than 435 customers. Additionally, the patented T-Sheet is the industry standard for emergency department documentation, with more than 800 customers. The Coding Software & Outsourced Solutions business provides a full-service outsourced coding solution as well as a cloud-based software-as-a-service solution for self-service coding. These offerings help more than 75 customers at over 300 sites optimize their revenue cycle workflow and customer revenue reimbursement through improved coding accuracy and compliance and coder productivity compared to in-house coding.
Corporate and Other.  This segment consists of our share in the operations of controlled and uncontrolled portfolio companies including our 24.8% equity interest in Triple Tree Holdings, LLC ("Triple Tree"), our wholly-owned subsidiary Fidelity National Timber Resources, Inc ("FNTR"), our interest in the debt of Colt Holding LLC ("Colt Defense"), and other various majority and minority equity investments. Triple Tree is an independent, research-driven investment banking firm focused on mergers and acquisitions, financial restructuring, and principal investing services for innovative, high-growth businesses in the healthcare industry. FNTR and its subsidiaries currently operate and invest in golf and real estate properties and develops, manages and operates residential and recreational properties, including a 1,800-acre ranch-style luxury resort and residential community in 
 1

Oregon and an 18-hole championship golf facility in Idaho. Colt Defense researches, develops, manufactures and sells firearms for military and personal defense and recreational purposes in the U.S. and internationally. As of December 31, 2017, we own debt of Colt Defense with a market value of $14.8 million.
Financial Information of Segments
Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report and Note Q. Segment Information to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for financial information of each of our reporting segments.
Strategy
We actively manage a group of companies and investments with a net asset value of approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017. The businesses within our portfolio primarily consist of our majority ownership positions in ABRH and T-System and our 33% minority investment in Ceridian. Our strategy for the Company is to continue our activities with respect to such business investments to achieve superior financial performance, maximize and ultimately monetize the value of those assets and to continue to pursue similar investments in businesses and to grow and achieve superior financial performance with respect to such newly acquired businesses.
Restaurant Group. Our restaurant operations are focused in the family dining and casual dining segments. The Restaurant Group's strategy is to achieve long-term profit growth and drive increases in same store sales and guest counts. We have a highly experienced management team that is focused on enhancing the guest experience at our restaurants and building team member engagement. We also utilize a shared service platform that takes advantage of the combined back-office synergies of our operating companies. We expect to continue to maintain a strong balance sheet for our Restaurant Group to provide stability in all operating environments.
Ceridian. Ceridian HCM's business has transformed from a legacy service-bureau model into a cloud-based provider model, and in the second half of 2016, Cloud revenue surpassed Bureau revenue for the first time. Ceridian HCM's flagship cloud offering, Dayforce, is a cloud solution that meets HCM needs with one employee record and one user experience throughout the application. As evidenced by its more than 60% compound annual growth rate since 2012, we believe that the Dayforce cloud offering, built on a single database, enjoys a competitive advantage in the marketplace. We believe Ceridian's Dayforce offering is a market leader as shown by both extensive recognition and industry awards. Nucleus Research named Dayforce as the leader in both HCM technology and Workforce Management, based on functionality and usability. In addition, Gartner Peer Insights placed Ceridian's Dayforce offering in the leader quadrant in global payroll services, and Ventana Research found Dayforce as the leader in both usability and capability in its Value Index. During 2016, Ceridian won several awards for Dayforce, including a TekTonic Award from HRO Today Magazine, a Gold American Business Award for best new product, and a Ventana Research Technology Innovation Award, among others.
T-System. T-System is engaged in providing clinical, financial, operational, and regulatory solutions for hospital emergency room ("ER") departments, free-standing emergency departments ("ED"), and urgent care and family practice healthcare facilities. T-System offers documentation solutions, including EV, an emergency department information system; EV for physicians, a solution with ER-specific clinical content and workflow for emergency physicians; T Sheets Digital, a documentation solution for urgent care; and T Sheets, which provides patient care through medical records/documentation and optimized reimbursement. We also provide charge capture and coding solutions that combine intelligent coding technology with services to improve quality and compliance, and result in accurate coding and financial outcomes for various types of facilities ranging from critical access hospitals to children's hospitals; and Advanced Coding System, which facilitates accurate coding for simple encounters and multiple patient complaints, and ensures optimal reimbursement for care provided. In the past several years, there has been an increased push for interoperability across systems to address the fact that patient records will contain information from more than one health care IT system. We believe that we are positioned to take the steps to create interoperability between T-System solutions and other large IT systems.
Acquisitions, Dispositions, Minority Owned Operating Affiliates and Financings. Acquisitions have been an important part of our growth strategy. Dispositions have been an important aspect of our strategy of returning value to shareholders. On an ongoing basis, with assistance from our advisors, we actively evaluate possible transactions, such as acquisitions and dispositions of business units and operating assets and business combination transactions.
In the future, we may seek to sell certain investments or other assets to increase our liquidity. Further, our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to, or synergistic with, our current operating segments. In the past we have obtained majority and minority investments in entities and securities where we see the potential to achieve above market returns. Fundamentally our goal is to acquire quality companies that are well-positioned in their respective industries, run by best-in-class management teams in industries that have attractive organic and acquired growth opportunities. We leverage our operational expertise and track record of growing industry leading companies and our active interaction with management of acquired companies, directly or through our board of directors, to ultimately provide value for our shareholders.
 2

There can be no assurance that any suitable opportunities will arise or that any particular transaction will be completed. We have made a number of acquisitions and dispositions over the past several years to strengthen and expand our service offerings and customer base in our various businesses, to expand into other businesses or where we otherwise saw value, and to monetize investments in assets and businesses.
Intellectual Property
Restaurant Group. We regard our service marks, including "O'Charley's", "Ninety Nine", "Village Inn", "Legendary Baking", and "Bakers Square", and other service marks and trademarks as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our restaurants. We have also obtained trademarks for several of our menu items and for various advertising slogans. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks and trademarks used by other persons in certain geographic areas where we have restaurants. However, we believe such uses will not adversely affect us. Our policy is to pursue registration of our marks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of our marks.
We license the use of our registered trademarks and service marks to franchisees and third parties through franchise arrangements and licenses. The franchise and license arrangements restrict franchisees' and licensees' activities with respect to the use of our trademarks and service marks, and impose quality control standards in connection with goods and services offered in connection with the trademarks and service marks.
Ceridian. Ceridian HCM and its subsidiaries own or have the rights to various trademarks, trade names and service marks, including the following: Ceridian®, Dayforce® and various logos used in association with these terms.
T-System.T-System's intellectual property includes the following: T SheetsTM, T-System EVTM, and T-System EV4PTM. T Sheets is one of the most widely used and accepted documentation systems in emergency medicine. T Sheets is built with the most comprehensive and up-to-date clinical content and serves as the clinical documentation backbone of T-System’s industry leading software solutions. T-System EVTM and EV4PTM are category-leading best-of-breed software solutions used by the episodic care market.
Refer to Note A. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for further information on the accounting for our Other intangible assets, including intellectual property.
Seasonality
Restaurant Group. Average weekly sales per restaurant are typically higher in the first and fourth quarters than in other quarters, and the Restaurant Group typically generates a disproportionate share of its earnings from operations in the first and fourth quarters. Holidays, severe weather and other disruptive conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors that are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate.
Ceridian. Because the volume of payroll items processed increases in the fourth quarter of each year in connection with employers' year-end reporting requirements, Ceridian HCM's revenue and profitability tends to be greater in that quarter.
T-System. The Clinical Documentation segment of T-System's business is impacted by seasonal volume increases in the first and fourth quarters compared to other quarters. The increase in charts coded is generated by seasonal flu volumes that impact the visits to health care facilities.
Inventory 
Restaurant Group. In the restaurant group's Legendary Baking business, sales of baked goods are greatest during the holiday season in the fourth quarter. As a result of inventory requirements to meet this demand, inventory is built up over the course of the first nine months of the year.
Competition
Restaurant Group. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns; changes in general economic conditions; public safety conditions or concerns; demographic trends; weather conditions; the cost of food products, labor, energy and other operating costs; and governmental regulations. The restaurant industry is also characterized by high capital investments for new restaurants and relatively high fixed or semi-variable restaurant operating expenses. Because of the high fixed and semi-variable expenses, changes in sales in existing restaurants are generally expected to significantly affect restaurant profitability because many restaurant costs and expenses are not expected to change at the same rate as sales. Restaurant profitability can also be negatively affected by inflationary and regulatory increases in operating costs and other factors. The most significant commodities that may affect our cost of food and beverage are beef, seafood, poultry, and dairy, which accounted for approximately half of our overall cost of food and beverage in the past. Generally, temporary increases in these costs are not passed on to guests; however, in the past, we have adjusted menu prices to compensate for increased 
 3

costs of a more permanent nature. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors that are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate.
Ceridian. The market for HCM products is highly competitive. Ceridian HCM's products compete primarily on the basis of technology, delivered functionality and performance, price, and service. Its competitors include (i) large service bureaus, primarily Automatic Data Processing Inc.; (ii) companies, such as Oracle, Kronos, Lawson, Ultimate Software and Workday that offer human resource management and payroll software products for use on mainframes, client/server environments and/or Web servers; and (iii) smaller service providers, such as Paychex.
T-System. The market for healthcare solutions is subject to intense competition and subject to rapid technological change. T-System offers solutions and services to support the clinical, financial, and operational needs for hospital ER departments, free-standing EDs, and urgent care and family practice healthcare facilities. Our competitors include companies such as Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Cerner Corporation, Medhost, and Epic Systems. 
Due to the pace of change within the market, we expect that major software information system companies, start-up companies, and other companies would produce new software solutions or services that would compete with evolving industry standards and requirements.
Competitive Strengths
Proven management team.  Our executive management team has a proven track record of investment identification and management. Our executive management's breadth of knowledge of capital markets allows us to identify companies and strategic assets with attractive value propositions, to structure investments to maximize their value, and to return the value created to shareholders. 
Employees
As of March 2, 2018, Cannae and our consolidated subsidiaries had 27,385 full-time equivalent employees, which includes 26,870 in our Restaurant Group, 329 at T-System and 186 in the various businesses comprising our Corporate and other segment. 
We monitor our staffing levels based on current economic activity. None of our employees are unionized or represented by any collective agency. We believe that our relations with employees are generally good.
Geographic Operations
For each of the last three fiscal years, substantially all of our revenues were earned in the United States and substantially all of our consolidated long-lived assets were located in the United States. 
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
 The statements contained in this Form 10-K or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements relate to, among other things, future financial and operating results of the Company. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following:

• | changes in general economic, business, and political conditions, including changes in the financial markets;


• | compliance with extensive government regulation of our operating subsidiaries and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations or in their application by regulators;


• | loss of key personnel that could negatively affect our financial results and impair our operating abilities;


• | our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates, as well as the risks associated with acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus, or difficulties integrating acquisitions;


• | other risks detailed in "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC.

 We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements.
 Additional Information
 Our website address is www.cannaeholdings.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed 
 4

or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. However, the information found on our website is not part of this or any other report.
