Prompt: Summarize the business model from the following text. Answer with a continuous text and with fivehundredtwelve tokens at max. Set your focus on sources of revenue , the intended customer base , products , distribution channels  and details of financing. Use only information from the following the text:

     Item 1 Business
     General
     Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the “Company,” “us,” “we,” or “our”) is an information technology (“IT”) channel company. The Company operates through two reportable operating segments.  The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software and hardware to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.  The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada. We offer an extensive line of products from leading publishers of software and tools for virtualization/cloud computing, security, networking, storage and infrastructure management, application lifecycle management and other technically sophisticated domains as well as computer hardware.
     The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1982. Our Common Stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “WSTG”. Our main web site address is www.waysidetechnology.com, and the other web sites maintained by our business include www.lifeboatdistribution.com, and www.techxtend.com.  Reference to these “uniform resource locators” or “URLs” is made as an inactive textual reference for informational purposes only. Information on our web sites should not be considered filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not, and should not be deemed to be, a part of this report.

    In our Lifeboat segment, we distribute technology products from software developers, publishers or equipment manufacturers to resellers, and system integrators worldwide. We purchase software, maintenance/service agreements, networking/storage/security equipment and complementary products from our vendors and sell them to our reseller customers. Generally, a vendor authorizes a limited of number of companies to act as distributors of their product and sell to resellers of their product. Our reseller customers include value-added resellers, or VARs, corporate resellers, government resellers, system integrators, direct marketers, and national IT superstores. We combine our core strengths in customer service, marketing, distribution, credit and billing to allow our customers to achieve greater efficiencies in time to market in the IT channel in a cost effective manner. 
     Our Lifeboat Distribution business is characterized by low gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, and price competition. In our Lifeboat segment, we are highly dependent on the end-market demand for the products we sell, and on our partners’ strategic initiatives and business models. This end-market demand is influenced by many factors including the introduction of new products, replacement and renewal cycles for existing products, competitive products, overall economic growth and general business activity. A difficult and challenging economic environment may also lead to consolidation or decline in the industry and increased price-based competition. 
     We also provide comprehensive IT solutions directly to end users through our TechXtend segment. Products in this segment are acquired directly from equipment manufacturers, software developers or distributors and sold to end users. We provide customer service, billing, sales and marketing support in this segment and also provide extended payment terms to facilitate sales.
     Products
     An essential part of our ongoing operations and growth plans is the continued recruitment of software publishers for which we become authorized distributors of their products. The Company offers a wide variety of technology products from a broad range of publishers and manufacturers, such as Bluebeam Software, Dell/Dell Software, erwin, Flexera Software, Hewlett Packard, Infragistics, Intel Software, Lenovo, Micro Focus Microsoft, Mindjet, Samsung, SmartBear Software, SolarWinds, Sophos, StorageCraft Technology, TechSmith, Unitrends, Veeam Software and VMware. On a continuous basis, we screen new products for inclusion in our direct sales portfolio, and web sites based on their features, quality, price, profit margins and warranties, as well as on current sales trends. The 

 
  1

 
Company predominantly sells software, software subscriptions, and maintenance. Sales of hardware and peripherals represented 7%, 10%, and 10% of our overall net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
     Marketing and Distribution
     We market products through creative marketing communications, including our web sites, local and on-line seminars, webinars, and social media. We also use direct e-mail and printed material to introduce new products and upgrades, to cross-sell products to current customers, and to educate and inform existing and potential customers. We believe that our blend of electronic and traditional marketing and selling programs are important marketing vehicles for software publishers and manufacturers. These programs provide a cost-effective and service-oriented means to market and sell and fulfill software products and meet the needs of users.
     The Company had two customers that each accounted for more than 10% of total sales for 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Software House International Corporation (“SHI”), and CDW Corporation (“CDW”) accounted for 23.0%, and 19.4%, respectively, of consolidated net sales and, as of December 31, 2017, 15.1% and 28.6%, respectively, of total net accounts receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2016, Software House International Corporation (“SHI”), and CDW Corporation (“CDW”) accounted for 19.6%, and 17.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, and, as of December 31, 2016, 13.3%, and 23.2%, respectively, of total net accounts receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2015, SHI, and CDW Corporation accounted for 19.0%, and 17.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. Our top five customers accounted for 52%, 48%, and 52% of consolidated net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company generally ships products within 48 hours of confirming a customer’s order. This results in minimum backlog in the business.
     Sales to customers in Canada represented 7%, 7%, and 6% of our consolidated revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Sales in Europe and the rest of the world represented 6%, 6%, and 6% of our consolidated revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. For geographic financial information, please refer to Note 9 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     Customer Support
     We believe that providing a high level of customer service is necessary to compete effectively, and is essential to continued sales and revenue growth. Our account representatives assist our customers with all aspects of purchasing decisions, order processing, and inquiries on order status, product pricing and availability. The account representatives are trained to answer all basic questions about the features and functionality of products.      Purchasing and Fulfillment
     The Company’s success is dependent, in part, upon the ability of its suppliers to develop and market products that meet the changing requirements of the marketplace. The Company believes it enjoys good relationships with its vendors. The Company and its principal vendors have cooperated frequently in product introductions and in other marketing programs. As is customary in the industry, the Company has no long-term supply contracts with any of its suppliers. Substantially all of the Company’s contracts with its vendors are terminable upon 30 days’ notice or less. Moreover, the manner in which software products are distributed and sold is changing, and new methods of distribution and sale may emerge or expand. Software publishers have sold, and may intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to end-users. The Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the terms and conditions of the Company’s authorizations with its vendors were to be significantly modified or if certain products become unavailable to the Company.
     We believe that effective purchasing from a diverse vendor base is a key element of our business strategy. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Sophos and Solarwinds accounted for 26.4% and 14.7%, respectively of our consolidated purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2016, Sophos and Solarwinds accounted for 23.1% and 10.8%, respectively, of our consolidated purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Sophos was the only individual vendor from whom our purchases exceeded 10% of our total purchases and accounted for 24.2% of our total 

 
  2

 
purchases. The loss of a key vendor or group of vendors could disrupt our product availability and otherwise have an adverse effect on the Company.
     In 2017, 2016 and 2015 the Company purchased approximately 96% of its products directly from manufacturers and publishers and the balance from multiple distributors. Most suppliers or distributors will “drop ship” products directly to the customers, which reduces physical handling by the Company. Inventory management techniques, such as “drop shipping” allow the Company to offer a greater range of products without increased inventory requirements or associated risk.
     Inventory levels may vary from period to period, due in part to increases or decreases in sales levels, the Company’s practice of making large-volume purchases when it deems the terms of such purchases to be attractive, and the addition of new suppliers and products. Moreover, the Company’s order fulfillment and inventory control systems allow the Company to order certain products just in time for next day shipping. The Company promotes the use of electronic data interchange (“EDI”) with its suppliers and customers, which helps reduce overhead and the use of paper in the ordering process. Although brand names and individual products are important to our business, we believe that competitive sources of supply are available for substantially all of the product categories we carry.
     The Company operates a distribution facility in Eatontown, New Jersey. 
     Competition
     The software market is highly competitive and characterized by aggressive pricing practices by both software distributors and resellers.  This has resulted in declining gross margins as a percentage of sales, which the Company expects to continue. The Company faces competition from a wide variety of sources competing principally on the basis of price, product availability, customer service and technical support. In the Lifeboat Distribution segment, we compete against much larger broad-line distributors, as well as specialty distributors and, in some cases, the direct sales teams of the vendors we represent, who also sell directly to the end-customers.  In the TechXtend segment, we compete against vendors who sell directly to customers, as well as software resellers, superstores, e-commerce vendors, and other direct marketers of software and hardware products. In both segments, some of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company. 
     There can be no assurance that the Company can compete effectively against existing competitors or new competitors that may enter the market or that it can generate profit margins which represent a fair return to the Company. An increase in the amount of competition faced by the Company, or its failure to compete effectively against its competitors, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
     The Company competes with other distributors and resellers to become an authorized distributor or reseller of products from software developers and publishers. It also competes with distributors and resellers to attract prospective buyers, and to source new products from software developers and publishers, and to market its current product line to customers. The Company believes that its ability to offer software developers and IT professionals easy access to a wide selection of the desired IT products at reasonable prices with prompt delivery and high customer service levels, along with its good relationships with vendors and suppliers, allows it to compete effectively. The Company competes to gain distribution rights for new products primarily on the basis of its reputation for successfully bringing new products to market and the strength of and quality of its relationships with software publishers.
     The market for the software products we sell is characterized by rapid changes in technology, user requirements, and customer specifications. The manner in which software products are distributed and sold is changing, and new methods of distribution and sale may emerge or expand. Software developers and publishers have sold, and may intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to end-users. The continuing evolution of the Internet as a platform in which to conduct e-commerce business transactions has both lowered the barriers for competition and broadened customer access to products and information, increasing competition and reducing prices. From time to time, certain software developers and publishers have instituted programs for the direct sale of large order quantities of software to certain major corporate accounts. These types of programs may continue to be developed and used by 

 
  3

 
various developers and publishers. While some software developers and publishers currently sell new releases or upgrades directly to end users, they have not attempted to completely bypass the distribution and reseller channels. There can be no assurances, however, that software developers and publishers will continue using distributors and resellers to the same extent they currently do. Future efforts by software developers and publishers to bypass third-party sales channels could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business operations and financial conditions.
     In addition, resellers and publishers may attempt to increase the volume of software products distributed electronically through ESD (Electronic Software Distribution) technology, through subscription services, and through on-line shopping services. Any of these competitive programs, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For a description of additional risks relating to competition in our industry, please refer to “Item 1.A. Risk Factors”: “We rely on our suppliers for product availability, marketing funds, purchasing incentives and competitive products to sell”, and “The IT products and services industry is intensely competitive and actions of competitors, including manufacturers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business.”
     Management Information Systems
     The Company operates management information systems on Windows 2008 and Windows 2012 platforms that allow for centralized management of key functions, including inventory, accounts receivable, purchasing, sales and distribution. We are dependent on the accuracy and proper utilization of our information technology systems, including our telephone, websites, e-mail and fax systems.
     The management information systems allow the Company to monitor sales trends, provide real-time product availability and order status information, track direct marketing campaign performance and to make marketing event driven purchasing decisions. In addition to the main system, the Company has systems of networked personal computers, as well as microcomputer-based desktop publishing systems, which facilitate data sharing and provide an automated office environment.
     The Company recognizes the need to continually upgrade its management information systems to most effectively manage its operations and customer database. In that regard, the Company anticipates that it will, from time to time, require software and hardware upgrades for its present management information systems.
     Trademarks
     The Company conducts its business under various trademarks and service marks including Lifeboat Distribution, TechXtend and International Software Partners. The Company protects these trademarks and service marks and believes that they have significant value to us and are important factors in our marketing programs.     Employees
     As of December 31, 2017, Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries had 138 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreements with its employees, has experienced no work stoppages and considers its relationships with its employees to be satisfactory.

 
  4

 

     Executive Officers of the Company
     Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal occupation and certain biographical information for our executive officers as of February 1, 2018 all of whom have been appointed by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board of Directors”).
    
Name | Age | Position 
Simon F. Nynens | 46 | Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Dale Foster | 54 | Executive Vice President 
Michael Vesey | 55 | Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
Kevin Scull | 52 | Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 
Vito Legrottaglie | 53 | VP of Operations and Chief Information Officer 
Brian Gilbertson | 57 | VP and General Manager of Lifeboat Distribution
Charles Bass | 53 | VP New Business Development 

      Simon F. Nynens was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006. Mr. Nynens also serves on the Board of Directors and was named Chairman in June 2006. He previously held the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (June 2004 - January 2006) and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (January 2002 - June 2004). Prior to January 2002, Mr. Nynens served as the Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company’s European operations.
     Dale Foster was appointed Executive Vice President in January 2018. Mr. Foster Previously served as Executive Director and General Manager of Promark Technology Inc. from November 2012 until he joined the Company. Prior to that he served as President and CEO of Promark prior to its acquisition by Ingram Micro.
     Michael Vesey was appointed Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2016. He served as Vice President of SEC Reporting for OTG Management, Inc., from January to September 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Vesey served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2011 to 2015, and Vice President Corporate Controller from 2006 to 2011, for Majesco Entertainment Company, a NASDAQ listed publisher and distributor of interactive entertainment software. Mr. Vesey is a certified public accountant and holds a Master of Finance degree from Penn State University. He began his career with the accounting firm KPMG.
     Kevin Scull was appointed to the position of Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in February 2015, after having served as the Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer since February 2014. He previously held the position of Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from January 2006 to August 2012, after having served as Corporate Controller of the company since January 2003. Prior to joining Wayside Technology Group, Inc., Mr. Scull worked for Niksun Inc. as Accounting Manager from January 2001to January 2003 and, prior to that, he worked for Telcordia Inc. from December 2000 to January 2001, as Manager of Accounting Policies.
     Vito Legrottaglie was appointed to the position of Vice President and Chief Information Officer in February 2015, after having served as Vice President of Operations and Information Systems since April 2007.  Mr. Legrottaglie rejoined the company in February 2003 having previously served as director of Information Systems and then vice president of Information Systems from 1996-2000. Mr. Legrottaglie has also held the positions of chief technology officer at Swell Commerce Incorporated, vice president of Operations for The Wine Enthusiast Companies, and director of Information Systems at Barnes and Noble.
     Brian Gilbertson was appointed Vice President and General Manager of Lifeboat Distribution (“Lifeboat”), a subsidiary of Wayside Technology Group, Inc., in May 2016. Mr. Gilbertson joined Lifeboat in 2015 as Vice President, Business Development.  Since 2003, Mr. Gilbertson has held leadership positions in distribution and high-tech vendor companies.  Prior to joining Lifeboat, Mr. Gilbertson served as the Senior Director for Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions from November 2006 to February 2015.  While at Arrow, Mr. Gilbertson had responsibility for the P&L, 

 
  5

 
development and execution of strategic direction, and day to day operations.  Prior to Arrow, he served as the Director of Sales for Alternative Technology July 2003 to November 2006.  
     Charles Bass was appointed Vice President New Business Development, in January 2018. Mr. Bass previously served as Vice President Worldwide Channel Sales at Blue Medora since October 2016 until he joined the Company. From August 2015 to October 2016 he served as Vice President Worldwide sales for Tegile Inc., and from November 2010 to August 2015 he served as Vice President, Alliances, Marketing and Western Sales for Promark Technology Inc.
     Available Information
     Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Company is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room.  The SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  The Company files electronically with the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge, through its internet web site, its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The following address for the Company’s web site includes a hyperlink to those reports under “Financials/SEC Filings”: http://www.waysidetechnology.com.
     In December 2017, we adopted a Code of Ethical Conduct. The full text of the Code of Ethical Conduct, which applies to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is available at our web site, http://www.waysidetechnology.com, under “Governance.” The Company intends to disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the Code of Ethical Conduct that applies to its Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer on its web site under “Investor Information.”
     Reference to the “uniform resource locators” or “URLs” contained in this section is made as an inactive textual reference for informational purposes only. Information on our web sites should not be considered filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not, and should not be deemed to be part of this report.
    
